title|review_url|review
Thymesia Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/thymesia-review|It’s always a shame when a game manages to get some things so right but others so wrong. OverBorder Studios’ third-person fantasy RPG Thymesia is a prime example of this, with satisfying, high-energy combat that rewards patience and a familiarity with its admittedly narrow progression systems immediately standing out as something special. At the same time, its twisting tale about a plague-torn kingdom and the secret agent that can save it, as well as the inconsistent quality of the exotic locations it takes place across, are largely half-baked and render the entire adventure easily forgettable.Thymesia’s story follows Corvus, a generic but well-dressed royal operative who’s had his brain scrambled like a breakfast egg. That’s likely a consequence of his direct involvement in a plague spreading across the country, a disease that empowers some creatures while maiming, killing, or mutating the rest. With the help of an underwhelmingly cryptic childlike ally, you must climb into the dark, goopy void that is your memory to remember how you got here in hopes that you can find clues on how to undo this tragedy.I really liked this story setup at the start, but I couldn’t have cared any less about Corvus’ mysterious purpose by the end of the roughly eight-hour journey. This is partially due to there being surprisingly little dialogue and very few NPCs to pry information from, with most of the plot delivered through notes dropped across the maps for you to spend time collecting and deciphering. This sort of storytelling has lost its shine a bit after being leaned on so heavily in games like this over the past decade, and even ignoring that fatigue Thymesia’s notes aren't written in an especially compelling fashion. Also, the story itself is tried-and-true territory when you get past that opening pitch – the fact that it's based in a conspiracy swirling around magical blood that turns people into monsters doesn’t help Thymesia shake the “Bloodborne-clone” allegations.Corvus’ memories take place in three locations. Two of them, the Sea of Trees and Hermes’ Fortress, are largely bland environments that you’ve probably seen done in other games before (and likely better). The foggy plague swamp of the former features lots of rope bridges and treehouses that look so alike under the putrid haze it becomes hard to navigate. The latter is just a medieval fantasy fortress, dilapidated and casting a shadow on some sparse forest areas around it. The swamp at least had the occasional scary, hammer-wielding mutant to spice up the journey through it, but the fortress is packed with generic knights of various stripes, with no real visual or thematic surprises to be had.The mundanity of these stages is made far more dire when compared to the third area, the Royal Garden, which is genuinely one of the most interesting environments I've seen in a game like this. It begins as a sort of bizarre set of greenhouses where large twisted flowers grow, and descends into a library submerged ankle-deep in blood. You can go even deeper on subsequent visits via sub-quests, eventually into an entire blood cave, teeming with a creep factor that stands out among a genre defined by it.You’re able to revisit the other two locations in sub-quests as well, but their creative flourishes are limited to simply changing the path you take through them and switching up which doors are accessible. When you do get to explore previously uncharted locations, there’s nothing dramatically different about them. Needless to say, doing these optional bits in places that weren’t the Royal Garden was a bit of a bore.These sub-quests are technically optional, but the things you find when you complete them are essential to figuring out how to end the plague and fix the world. (You could absolutely beat Thymesia by completing only the main missions, but the resulting conclusion to the story might be lackluster.) There are several different endings you could land on based on a few factors I won’t spoil, and I would have been motivated to see them all if you didn’t have to repeat the final boss fight every time to do so – especially when the only thing that really determines the ending, besides having the right items and information, is how you choose to use them after the final fight. And in reality, even the “good” ending is a bit of a disappointment, as it plays out in a simple slide show of inky images with some sparse text blocks.Despite the story’s shortcomings, Thymesia’s combat is its main highlight. Corvus moves swiftly, smothering his enemies in a barrage of blades and dipping out of range just before they can counter cleanly. There’s no stamina bar to contend with here, meaning the limiting factor of your attacks is simply the length of a combo string, similar to a fighting game. By default, there's no blocking either, meaning your go-to defensive option is either a parry with pretty tricky timing or a reliable dodge. Deflecting an attack sends damage back to the attacker at a decent rate, making every little encounter a choice between passively waiting out an enemy’s series of attacks and striking during the down time, or being proactive, absorbing the damage with well-placed parries to soften them up before it’s your turn to strike.Combat is largely a back and forth like this, since there’s no reliable way to stagger enemies. They can be staggered, or course, but how and when almost always felt like a crap shoot – an unpredictability that also applies to when baddies decide to counter you. Apparently, there are a limited amount of attacks you can freely land on an enemy before they will counterattack, but you’re never actually told exactly how many that is, even though you get access to skills that can affect this hidden feature in various ways. This is largely moot by midway through the campaign though, because most enemies outside of bosses become pretty trivial as you get stronger.When slicing and dicing, you have to be aware of the dual nature of an enemy’s life bar. Your normal sword attacks damage the white portion, which exposes a green bit under it. The white bar will refill unless you use your spectral claw attacks to damage the green portion, shortening the bar permanently. Weaving sword and claw attacks deliberately is key to efficiently dispatching your enemies, but since these attacks don’t directly link to one another in combos, the dance can sometimes feel clunky. But for tougher enemies, racing to effectively “lock in” the sword damage done with some well-placed claw attacks while dodging their big moves was a major part of this combat system’s unique tension.Bosses come in two forms: very large, gimmicky pushovers, and nimble mudhole stompers. The former have more creative designs but way easier patterns to learn and avoid, making them more “experiences” than actual challenges. Even still, one of these fights was one of the most memorable parts of Thymesia, having me run through a series of platforms to burst plague cysts and clear fog while a giant thrashed the place around me. The latter fights resemble your more standard one-on-one encounter, where a boss has a large list of possible ways to kill you quickly and you have to dip, dodge, and deflect a lot to avoid getting mopped up. These get easier over time as you get stronger, but that very first card-throwing-carny in particular feels like a large, thick, and frustrating skill wall.Getting stronger involves the usual collecting of a currency from enemies and spending it to raise stats like health and damage, but you’ll also collect and enhance plague weapons: secondary attacks that mimic the armaments your enemies will use against you. These weapons give you powerful abilities to vary your offense, like big heavy hammer blows or a quick and accurate bow. Most interestingly, you can steal a one-time-use version of plague weapons from enemies, giving you yet another layer of offense on the fly. This was especially great for elite enemies and bosses, who usually have powerful abilities at their disposal.The talent tree can also tweak Corvus’ moves or change them completely. There’s an upper limit on how many talent points you can have, meaning you can’t simply max everything out, so making good choices is key to turning you into a true killing machine. Options like extending the deflection window or changing your counter into a block are interesting, but I leaned more into the abilities that gave me offensive buffs when I dodged attacks at the last second or extended my normal and claw attack combos. Synergizing these with health gain and dodge extension options let me fine tune my playstyle, but most options modify your play with passive enhancements or added utility rather than overhauling the way you interact with combat completely. That’s not a bad thing, necessarily, but it does limit the scope of what’s possible in combat, and folks who love strength-focused, big-weapon-smash builds will be left wanting here.
Cult of the Lamb Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/cult-of-the-lamb-review|When I started Cult of the Lamb, I wasn’t expecting to be shoveling so much poop. This is a true wolf of a base-management game in the sheepish clothing of an action-roguelite, but it balances that unexpected mix of genres with grace. Its adorable art style and surprising amount of side activities fill its relatively linear structure up with personality – and while its combat sections aren’t deep enough to keep me coming back after the credits rolled, this is a dark ritual I’m very glad to have completed.Cult of the Lamb puts you in the fluffy hooves of a cult leader newly resurrected by an imprisoned deity called The One Who Waits. Now it’s up to you to free your master by recruiting new followers to the flock, building a base for them to live in, and going on bloody crusades against the otherworldly entities that trapped him. That loop of gathering supplies, tending to your worshipers, upgrading both your character and your homestead, and then going out to do it again is extremely satisfying, with a charming art style and expressive animations that bring a bit of joy to every ruthless corner of it.While Cult of the Lamb is a roguelite dungeon crawler that randomizes level layouts and the items you come across each run as you become progressively more powerful between them, comparing it directly to similar games like Hades or Rogue Legacy would be a bit misleading. Each crusade is randomized and repeatable in the same way, but they are also far shorter – most take around just 10 minutes total. You even pick between one of four disconnected areas to fight through at the start of every run, with a boss waiting to be beaten at the end of each one in order to complete the story, which means Cult of the Lamb lacks that familiar roguelike tension of seeing how deep into the gauntlet you can manage to make it every time.Those short outings aren’t necessarily a bad thing, but they did mean I spent most of the 13 hours it took me to reach the credits building out my base and completing little quests for NPCs rather than swinging a weapon. It’s safe to say that for all the DNA Cult of the Lamb shares with a game like Dead Cells, it’s just as closely related to a management game like Oxygen Not Included. That’s good company to be in regardless, and I enjoyed that my decisions out on the hunt were often influenced by the needs of my cultists diligently working back home rather than it always being the other way around.That’s not to say the combat isn’t fun in its own right, though. It’s not overly complex, with little more than a single attack button, a special “curse” power, and a dodge-roll at your disposal, but each of those elements are honed to an effective edge. The dodge in particular is delightfully snappy, giving you a responsive way to evade the well-telegraphed attacks of enemies as you cut through rooms full of cultists and monsters alike. The different types of weapons, curses, and tarot card-based buffs you can find along the way can also help shake up each new outing as you work your way toward the end of the campaign.The one major drawback is that you are given a random weapon and curse at the start of each crusade, but unfortunately you have no control over which ones you’ll see and the possibilities are far from equal. While the default sword and harder-hitting axe are reliably great, the frustratingly slow hammer and the gloves (which deal most of their damage only on the final hit of their attack combo) are ill-suited against Cult of the Lamb’s fairly mobile enemies. Similarly, some curses can be satisfying AoE blasts while others drop a pile of ineffective goo. With runs being so short, that means you frequently won’t even get a chance to find a workable replacement before the end, and having a go at a boss hamstrung by a poor roll at the very start definitely wore on my patience more than once.But while you don’t get enough opportunities to choose your attacks, you are given plenty of chances to influence your kit mid-run through tarot cards. These power-ups give you boons that can range from extra health to adding a projectile to your melee attack to making enemies drop fish when killed. It’s a bit of a shame that a majority of them are simply stat upgrades like a 20% increase to weapon damage, meaning they never did much to shake up my actual playstyle on a given run, but getting lucky by finding a rare tarot card to fully double the attack speed of my axe was still a lot of fun when it happened.Of course, stumbling upon a powerful card like that could also trivialize the boss encounters on the default difficulty. These fights can be creative both in the visual design of the horrific eldritch monstrosities you face and the almost bullet hell-like attacks they throw at you. But if you have even a passing familiarity with roguelike action games, you’ll probably want to notch the difficulty up to Hard from the start – I rarely had to do much more than spam the attack button to beat each boss on my first try, which doesn’t really give their clever designs the spotlight they deserve.Despite the horrible appearance of Cult of the Lamb’s largest enemies, many of them will delightfully turn into adorable friends your size upon defeat – friends who can then be recruited to your cult back home. The action sections may be how you move the relatively simple plot along, but the base building is where all of the real mechanical progression lies. Converting folk you find out in the field lets you put them to work gathering resources like wood and stone, worshiping your visage to generate a resource called devotion, or cleaning up the poop they’ll generously litter the edges of your camp with.You’ll be doing a lot of that work yourself to start, but it’s immensely satisfying to watch your base grow – both technologically and visually – as you recruit more followers. Your base and your lamb each have tech trees to work up, unlocking either new structures to build or new abilities and weapons to find, respectively. That means things like watering your farms by hand can eventually be handled by your recruits, and more interesting options gradually open up that let you send followers off on expeditions for resources or even temporarily turn them into demons that can assist you in battle.There’s a ton to dig into here, and I enjoyed the balance that was managing the faith, hunger, cleanliness levels of my followers, but it also made me wish keeping track of them on an individual basis was easier. Once your cult membership starts to approach the double digits, it can be extremely hard to tell who is doing what task, who you’ve already “blessed” that day for an experience boost, and who is just sitting around twiddling their thumbs. Thankfully you don’t really need to worry too much about that stuff to keep up with their desires, especially after you’ve unlocked better facilities for them, but Cult of the Lamb made me care enough about optimizing my enterprise that it frustrated me when I couldn’t.One way it does offer a welcome amount of control is in its cosmetic options, which practically outnumber its functional ones. You can easily move buildings around your camp, change the appearance and name of every new follower you recruit, and cover every corner in superfluous decorations that often have to be earned or unlocked as you play. You don’t have to go deep on any of this stuff if you don’t actually want to, but it gave me an ownership over my cult that got me far more invested – I even played favorites with my followers, giving the best of them extra attention and mourning them when they eventually died of old age… or when I sacrificed them, because who needs an old mouth to feed.In that vein, a huge part of what makes Cult of the Lamb so impressive is how it leans into the goofiness of its theme, and the excellent aesthetics that accompany all of its chaos. It absolutely nails the balance of its cutesy cartoon vibes and its demonic set dressing, with dozens of charming animal forms for you to find – be that elephants, giraffes, unicorns, or strange spider… things. The soundtrack is also probably one of the catchiest I’ve heard in a long, long time; a chipper yet spooky mix that I haven’t been able to get out of my head.There’s also just way more to do than I would have expected. There’s a whole world map with individual (if small) locations to visit, each with shops to buy new tarot cards and cosmetics from as well as characters to meet and complete quests for. There’s a fishing minigame, a dice-rolling minigame, a sidequest designed to send you back into locations you’ve already beaten with an increased challenge. There are some secrets to find too, and the quirky character designs are all top notch no matter what corner of the map you visit.That said, Cult of the Lamb does feel like a roguelite I am pretty much done with after 13 hours, about half of which I played on hard mode. I reached the end of both its progression trees about two-thirds of the way through, and I’ve completed nearly all of the side activities I’ve managed to find. You can revisit levels you’ve already beaten in an endless mode that continues to amp up the difficulty nicely if you want to play Cult of the Lamb closer to a more traditional roguelike, but there’s not really enough variety in its weapons, tarot cards, or straightforward map layouts to make me actually want to do much of that. I had a blast reaching the credits, but this ultimately felt more like a linear campaign than its roguelike action sections might suggest.
Digimon Survive Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/digimon-survive-review|You ever see someone with massive, toned arms but embarrassingly scrawny legs? Digimon Survive is a little bit like that person: it overwhelmingly succeeds at being an entertaining visual novel, but completely skips leg day when it comes to its tedious tactics combat. Apart from some serious pacing problems, meeting Digimon Survive’s memorable characters and exploring the grim world they are in make the story at its center very enjoyable. But while this visual novel digivolves in the areas of storytelling and characterization, the slow and mind-numbingly simplistic turn-based combat system crammed into it comes close to spoiling that otherwise enjoyable tale entirely.The glacial opening hours of Digimon Survive feature a group of quirky high school students who are sucked into a parallel world that’s filled with Digimon. That’ll be a familiar setup for any Digimon fan, but a much darker tone and a new cast of characters means that’s just about where the similarities end. Digimon has always dabbled with dark themes, but what follows here is an unsettling tale filled with intense and traumatic backstories, physical and verbal abuse, psychotic episodes, betrayal, and gruesome deaths, all next to the usual colorful cartoon mascots who turn into sexy humanoids through the power of friendship. Tone Control Police? Yeah, I’d like to report a murder.The perilous story of Digimon Survive sees these students and their destined Digimon partners trying to survive the mysterious and dangerous world they now find themselves in while searching for a way to return to their own. Unfortunately they are also surrounded by evil and sadistic Digimon who are into killing children and monologuing about how much they like killing children in equal measure. It’s a weird ride to be sure, but also one that’s thoroughly enjoyable.And although it can be jarring at times, Digimon Survive does benefit from both its dark tone and the incredibly high stakes it sets. For example, characters can be killed off in horrifyingly gruesome ways because you didn’t spend enough time developing a relationship with them. Naturally, this transforms them into the worst version of themself and their death is all your fault for being a bad friend. Those stakes work very well in a visual novel that puts its characters front and center, especially since the Digimon franchise has always leaned heavily on the saving-the-world-through-the-power-of-friendship trope – this time there’s just a lot more murdering going on.All of that murder looks fantastic too, thanks to an anime art style that made me forget I wasn’t watching a Digimon TV show half of the time. Characters are incredibly crisp and expressive – so much so that I almost forgave the lack of an English voice option, which I generally prefer. It’s just too bad that I got used to such stellar graphics in the storytelling sections that make up most of the adventure, because every time I then jumped to the low-res textures and overly-simplistic character models of its tactical gameplay sections the whiplash would nearly break my neck. Digimon Survive’s music is also generally high quality, though there are only a handful of tracks that play over and over again throughout the roughly 40-hour runtime, so unfortunately I ended up sick of them by the end.As a visual novel first and foremost, Digimon Survive has you doing by-the-numbers activities like finding hidden objects and building up social links with your comrades, but the story around those things is largely pretty awesome. It’s got some memorable characters, a unique setting, and more than a few neat twists and turns (though admittedly I saw many of its reveals coming from a mile away). You’ll get to hang out with some likable, if a bit one-dimensional, human companions like the level-headed mother hen Aoi and the talkative goofball Minoru, as well as the much more interesting Digimon characters like the ever-lovable Agumon and the surprisingly mature and stern Falcomon. Digimon Survive has got real storytelling chops at all the right times too, and the pivotal moments where it flexes them account for some of the adventure's best.The biggest problem with the story is that it moves at a snail’s pace most of the time, with lots of meaningless filler padding out its chapters and characters who absolutely refuse to stop rehashing the same things over and over again – so much so that I was screaming “I get it already” at my television. The opening couple of hours in particular are so oppressively slow that it left an incredibly bad first impression until things finally started developing down the road. But just as things did get going, the fun police would inevitably arrive to shove some needlessly drawn out conversation down my throat. One section had me walking through the identical halls of a waterway to discover the same illusory figures repeatedly (which somehow fooled my character every time, naturally), while another had me bouncing back and forth between a handful of areas as I chased around a group of characters who would argue with me briefly before running off to be chased again. There’s just a ton of wheel spinning that happens in between the otherwise interesting story developments, which bogs down the whole experience.Thankfully, the relationships you build as you work your way through this world’s mysteries pay dividends and have a meaningful impact on the story, culminating in a couple different endings (plus a secret one that can only be achieved during New Game+). Most of those endings are at least worth seeing once, however accessing them requires mastering a rigid and unintuitive karma system that measures your Moral, Wrathful, and Harmony scores based on dialogue options you choose along the way. Gaining access to some of the endings and getting characters to like you will require learning which kinds of responses one character likes versus another, which means lots of times I wasn’t roleplaying as a character so much as I was giving a response that I thought a certain person would like me for – or, worse yet, just doing it so I could get a high enough score in one category to unlock a certain ending, which took me out of the experience by forcing me to metagame more often than I would have liked.In between long stretches of visual novel gameplay, you’ll slog your way through Digimon Survive’s absolutely abhorrent tactics combat. These turn-based battles will be familiar if you’ve ever played something like a Fire Emblem game, only this particular iteration of the genre is unbearable in just about every conceivable way. It’s one of the most barebones designs I’ve ever seen from a tactics game: each Digimon only has two moves (a standard attack and a signature move), enemies are samey and predictable, and the battle system doesn’t evolve at all as you progress. In fact, there are so few factors to consider that practically no tactics or strategy were ever required of me beyond choosing my strongest Digimon and rushing my opponent, even on harder difficulties. The result is a repetitive and painfully dull combat system that I found to be deeply offensive, and I couldn’t stand more than a minute of it at a time before sighing deeply and resigning myself to its cold, upsetting embrace.Which is unfortunate, because the genuinely worthwhile story is interrupted with these prolonged and crude encounters that often drag on for way too long. If you’re hoping to add your favorite Digimon to your roster or are playing on the Normal or Hard difficulties like I jumped between, a certain amount of grinding will be required too, and that means you’ll need to subject yourself to this rudimentary and boring combat system on a regular basis. Digimon Survive also uses a recruitment system that’s similar to Persona 5, where you convince Digimon to join your team by answering seemingly pointless questions with equally meaningless responses to find the answers each Digimon likes. If you correctly answer questions to a Digimon’s satisfaction, then you get a percentage chance that they’ll join your team – which in my case resulted in the Digimon running away about 80% of the time, causing me to have to seek them out and endure the combat system all over again. It’s seriously one of the most frustrating experiences I’ve had in recent memory and put an extremely sour taste in my mouth during an adventure I would have enjoyed a great deal more if it wasn’t included at all.In fairness, the developers did include plenty of options to make the painful combat less prickly by letting you increase battle speed, turn off animations, and even use an auto-battle option so you can just passively watch your Digimon duke it out. There’s even a “retry” option if you’re trying to catch a Digimon and fail due to RNG not going in your favor. Of course, with so many tools that enable you to speed up, skip through, or not engage with the combat system, it’s pretty sad that so much effort has been put into allowing you to avoid playing half of the game at all costs. I would have much preferred if that effort would have been put into fleshing it out and making combat actually fun to play.There aren’t many compliments I can offer Digimon Survive’s combat, but one is that it satisfyingly rewards players who invest time in developing social links with the story’s characters. That’s because your affinity with a character determines the extent to which they’re able to Digivolve, meaning those you’re closest with will be the most powerful allies on the battlefield. If you’re like me and were hoping to spend as little time in that mess of a game mode, then this gives a huge incentive to spend time with your friends and make sure they’re happy.
Two Point Campus Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/two-point-campus-review|Two Point Campus continues in the already impressive footsteps of Two Point Hospital before it, dressing up an engaging business management sim in goofy irreverence. To be honest, its dorky, oddball sense of humor misses me more often than it hits. But that all fades into the background for the most part when I'm having a blast laying out my new library, planning out dorms, and throwing sweet parties in the student union.Most of the time you'll be juggling your budget, student happiness, and the space requirements of running a university. It's similar to Two Point Hospital in that last regard – making the best of annoying geometry to cram in an extra lecture theater or much-needed bathroom put my mental Tetris skills to the test, and often forced me to abandon the idea of a perfect layout in the interest of a functional one. That can sometimes get tiresome, but it's also not really an issue later on when you get some bigger plots and the ability to make buildings whatever shape you want. So by the time it had overstayed its welcome, I was given the much appreciated freedom not to deal with it anymore.The Sandbox mode is where Two Point Campus really shines, letting you loose to build the school of your dreams on any of the 12 different themed plots. Some are outright wacky, like a spy school that uses a burger joint as a cover. Others are a bit more vanilla, like an Oxford-inspired campus in the faux-English countryside. And the same goes for the courses available, with everything from General Knowledge to actual Knight School – yes, that's Knight with a K. So you can kind of adjust your level of silliness to your preference, which is nice.Each campus is introduced through a story-driven scenario that includes its own special rules. I definitely liked some of these more than others. Funding my university entirely on plundered artifacts from an archaeological dig has a bit of an, "Are we the baddies?" vibe, but I found it entertaining. On the other hand, running a parody of a SoCal party school where my entire budget was based on how much fun the students were having became mechanically tedious pretty quickly due to the extremely small profit margins and low return on investment for all the expensive amenities I provided.You only have to clear five of these to unlock all 12 maps in sandbox mode, though. So if you're just not feeling the scenario objectives, they're easy enough to ignore. And once outside the bounds of the campaign, I enjoyed how progression works. Adding more facilities and staff, as well as leveling up your various rooms by adding decorations and more learning opportunities, will level up the whole university and provide more course points and "Kudosh," a special currency that unlocks more cosmetic options and ploppable doodads. Course points can be spent to add new programs or expand existing ones, and that creates a rewarding feeling of going from a dingy backup school to a thriving university.Not all courses are built the same, either. The aforementioned Archaeology program lets you dig up artifacts that can be put on display to raise your campus' prestige, or sold to pad out your budget. Academic Exercise revolves around the sport of Cheeseball, where you can schedule games against rival schools and compete for glory. Not every course has its own minigame like this, but the ones that do effectively let you be more hands-on during a school year and create extra, thematic goals to strive for.The more nitty-gritty campus management aspects can be a bit frustrating, though. While the UI is legible and organized, it's sometimes hard to quickly find information I'd really like access to, like why a particular student has low grades. The Advice screen is very helpful in this regard, since it usually tells you what your biggest problems are in plain language. But it doesn't really help you understand how the systems work to allow you to spot those problems intuitively in the future. There are also a number of things I wish had tooltips that don't for some reason, like the Academic Overview. Overlays for all the various happiness and comfort factors are great, but again, they don't necessarily help you figure out why a problem exists – only that there is one.The visual style of Two Point Campus is almost identical to Two Point Hospital, and it’s one that makes everything very readable. It's also not exactly my vibe, though. Just like the humor often doesn't do it for me, rarely rising above what you'd find in a kids' joke book, the stylized and whimsical models and animations seem a bit like a playset you'd find in the Early Childhood section of a toy store. I don't need every game I play to look like a photorealistic, ray-traced military simulator, but I’m just not charmed by this particular aesthetic either.The theming of the various maps, on the other hand, does get me excited. Being able to have a knight school inside of an actual castle is pretty rad. There's enough diversity that whatever kind of university you can imagine, there's probably a plot that fits it well. I wish there were some more carpet and wallpaper options for some rooms, and the lack of the ability to make slanted or curved buildings is a little bit limiting. But the grid helps keep things simple and modular as well, so it's a trade-off. And I do enjoy personalizing everything with posters, landscaping, and statues.
Xenoblade Chronicles 3 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/xenoblade-chronicles-3-review|When it comes to over-the-top roleplaying games, it’s hard to beat the bonkers worlds and stories I’ve come to expect from the Xenoblade Chronicles saga. With Xenoblade Chronicles 3, massive improvements have been made to combat, quest design, and the RPG sandbox, while retaining the absurd and awesome environments, and a laser-focus on great characters and an impressive (if convoluted) story. Of course, while this third entry evolves in some key areas that make the epic journey more consistently fun than the two mainline games that came before it, it also repeats some of the same mistakes, including sloppy writing, weak bosses, and graphics that often leave something to be desired. Even so, Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is already competing for the spot as my favorite iteration of this beloved series.At the heart of any Xenoblade game is a fantastically bizarre world and an epic story that’s propelled into utter insanity by the end, and Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is no exception. Everything about the war-torn world of Aionios is completely foreign, from the 10-year life spans the world’s pod-grown residents live, to the constant war to power up “flame clocks” that each faction draws life from, to the Off-Seers who play flutes to release the dead as sprites of light. All of these puzzling elements unravel over the course of the extensive adventure, and being a part of that journey is uniquely satisfying in a way only Monolith Soft seems capable of pulling off.Even those who have never played a Xenoblade game before will be able to enjoy this extremely self-contained story. There are definitely references and tie-ins to Xenoblade Chronicles 1 and 2, but they’re not crucial to anything so you aren’t likely to take notice of them at all unless you know what to look for. For those like myself who have been following along from the beginning, there’s plenty to enjoy that felt like a nice reward for keeping up with the series for all these years.But while the story and world are delightfully weird, they aren’t always effectively used, especially when it comes to the extremely hit-or-miss writing that has characters retreading the same developments over and over again and beating you over the head with the story’s themes and ideas. The concepts and characters almost never stop shining, but it’s not always told with finesse, and oftentimes three lengthy cutscenes are used to accomplish what might have just as well been covered with a single line of dialogue. Some sections had so many exhaustive cutscenes occurring one after another that a painful sense of deja vu crept over me and dragged down what was an otherwise interesting development. Not to mention the fact that just about every anime story cliche in the book has been included in the maximum doses legally permitted. Add in some severe pacing problems, like one section that has you go undercover to perform menial tasks, or another that has you trotting across the world to collect pieces of metal, and I often felt like my time wasn’t being respected with so much filler padding out the adventure. Some of that is fine, but in a game that took 150 hours to complete it might’ve been better to trim out some of the unessential parts.The good news is that, even when the story drags a bit the characters shine brightly, with very few exceptions. Whether you’re hanging out with the brash meathead Lanz and his simple charms or spending time with the studious bookworm Taion, it was really hard for me to not grow to love the ragtag band of misfits and ne’er-do-wells that comprise your party. Sure, they aren’t the most original characters – I’ve definitely seen their like in half a hundred games and shows before – but after so many hours with these lovable scamps, I’ve come to regard them all as my chosen family. That’s especially true when each character is given so much time in the limelight, with every party member getting extensive personal histories and fully voice-acted optional side quests that flesh out their backstories and provide additional color. Even some of the less interesting members like Sena, the under-achieving jock who I considered the runt of the litter, still ended up winning me over in the end thanks to all the time and attention given to developing her.Of course, it wouldn’t be Xenoblade without bizarre, otherworldly locations to adventure in, and the environments in this one are suitably odd. There’s one area that takes place inside of a giant discarded sword, and another that leads you along the branches of a massive tree. Exploring these areas as you unravel the mysteries of Aionios add to the unpredictability and weirdness of the world in a really awesome way. That said, compared to some of the bonkers destinations from previous Xenoblade games, the places you visit in this odyssey are mild by comparison. There are a few highlights, but nothing that comes close to climbing up a giant dead robot’s elbow or winding up inside the body of an ancient creature. Instead you mostly explore standard settings like a snowy area, a big, sandy desert, or a large body of water with some small islands. It still captures the spirit of exploration and discovery for which Xenoblade is known and there are certainly a few surprises, but I do find myself wishing the developers had gotten a bit weirder with it considering the series’ track record.It’s also unfortunate that, although Xenoblade 3’s environments are awesome to roam around in, they rarely look pretty due to the Nintendo Switch being pushed to its absolute limits by such an ambitious voyage. I played on my OLED model and switched between docked and mobile mode regularly, but even with Nintendo’s most recent hardware textures are often low-res, there’s frequent pop-in (and out), and oftentimes I just couldn’t help but feel like the world was a bit blurry. The good news is that I quickly got used to these visual shortcomings and, once I accepted it for what it was, it only rarely dampened my enjoyment. Thankfully cutscenes, at least, are crisp and the frame rate runs at a rock-solid 30 even when dozens of things are happening on-screen at the same time, but it’s still sorta disappointing to see such obvious hardware limitations in an adventure that reaches for the stars in so many other areas.As you explore the world you’ll recruit new party members to your team, fight bizarre creatures, and distract yourself with dozens of hours of side quests that are mostly worthwhile. If you were annoyed by the fetch quests from previous games, you can look forward to the fact that Xenoblade 3 massively improves things in this regard by making many optional quests actually feel substantial by introducing new characters and offering some story snippets that make your effort worth the trouble. In my completionist playthrough I helped a nopon and a human put aside their differences across a series of missions, became best friends with a robot, and helped various settlements resolve their disputes. That said, there are still plenty of missions that feel very much like filler and have you running around collecting berries and rocks or some such nonsense, and those are as gut-wrenchingly unpleasant to do as they’ve ever been – though at least now you aren’t bombarded by them every five minutes.What’s especially impressive is that some side quests are so impactful that they almost feel like they should have been mandatory. Some end with you getting a new party member or triggering a cutscene that fleshes out an important area of a character’s backstory. And thankfully, most of these missions are even appropriately labeled so it’s easy to identify which ones you should go out of your way to do and which you’d be forgiven to skip. In an adventure that sometimes makes questionable decisions concerning how it uses all the time it demands from you, I was deeply grateful that I felt most of my time spent chasing around side quests was rewarded.Similarly, numerous improvements have been made to the combat system that make it feel far less repetitive and more engaging than its predecessors. While the foundation of combining auto-attacks, super-powered Arts, and attack combos remains largely intact, a plethora of options have been added that successfully staves off stagnation for over 100 hours – and that’s no small feat! It’s accomplished with (among other things) six playable characters plus a guest NPC that can be swapped out, new transformations that combine two characters into their Ouroburos form making them almost impossible to take down for a limited period of time, and returning chain attacks, which let you deal a ton of damage by playing a simple minigame.As you travel around Aionios, you’ll encounter all manner of wild beasts, legendary creatures, bloodthirsty humans, and giant robots to fight. Not all enemies are created equal, and fighting against giraffe-like creatures that lazily kick at you doesn’t quite compare to robotic opponents whose movesets and animations make them feel like a lot more work was put into them. But the variety of things to slay at least gives you lots of new experiences throughout the journey.There’s also an awesome new mechanic that lets characters trade classes with one another and with guest NPCs that have entirely different skill sets. In fact, doing so is incredibly important to progression because you gain new abilities by mastering the classes of your fellow party members. You might become an awesome healer with a laser gun or a soul-stealing boxer who takes abilities from powerful creatures you fell. Playing around with all the classes not only serves as an addictive loop that kept me busy throughout the adventure, but also helps break up some of the monotony we had to slog through in prior iterations of the combat system that tethered you to a single class and lacked variety.The drawback is that with so many new mechanics and all the complexity of everything Xenoblade Chronicles 3 juggles, you’ll quite frequently be interrupted to read through tutorial cards – and when I say “frequently” I mean those will keep coming at you quite literally until the very end… and even beyond the credits. Not only does this slow the journey in an irritating way, but it can be downright overwhelming to keep track of some many mechanics all at once. I’ve gotta believe there’s an easier way to get me to ingest all of that information without flash cards popping up like I’m studying for the LSAT.Another major gripe I’ve always had with the series that continues to be a problem in Xenoblade 3 is how characters still shout the same lines over and over again, with no reprieve. I must have heard Eunie say “Hear that, Noah? Lanz wants something a bit meatier,” well over 500 times during my playthrough, and there doesn’t appear to be any way to turn combat dialogue off like you could in Xenoblade Chronicles Remastered. If this sounds like a minor complaint to you, then you most likely haven’t heard someone say the same phrase so many times that it’s become integrated into your very DNA. It’s seriously a harrowing experience, and I’ll never understand why this is still a problem in 2022.Boss fights are also a bit underwhelming, as you fight a lot of the same class of boss enemies who rarely have anything to differentiate them from one another. They really like throwing big purple humanoid demon creatures at you, for example, which gets quite old pretty fast. They’re also fans of making you fight the same boss twice in a row, with cutscenes serving as bookends between each encounter. And don’t even get me started on the numerous times you defeat a boss only to immediately enter a cutscene wherein the boss defeats you. I get that it’s a very common cliche in JRPGs (and specifically in Xenoblade as a series), but Xenoblade Chronicles 3 really abuses its privileges in this regard, to the point where I began to assume each victory over a boss was going to lead into a cutscene wherein I lose the fight. Put all that together and you end up with boss fights not really being something I looked forward to, even though combat against normal enemies is otherwise fantastic.
Live A Live Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/live-a-live-review-live-laugh-live|The curious RPG Live A Live is a fascinating time capsule of an era when RPGs were still experimenting heavily with structures and ideas, and its long-awaited remake proves that the best, weirdest efforts of that experimentation can still shine today. Its unusual story structure of seven different vignettes ranging from prehistory to the far, spacefaring future, is immediately striking after decades of grandiose, linear RPGs. And its initial disparate story threads are upheld and pulled together by its ensemble cast of lovable characters. But what truly makes Live A Live a triumph is the way it pulls its disparate threads together to subvert expectations of JRPGs not only as they existed in 1994 when it was first made, but somehow still almost three decades later in 2022.Most of the best things about Live A Live’s remake were present in its original form, which makes it all the more a shame it never made it to the West back in the ‘90s. That said, this remake would have been worth the effort even if we were already familiar with the story and gameplay. While the original was not the prettiest of Square’s RPGs even for its era, the HD-2D look pioneered by Octopath Traveler continues not to miss when it comes to wonderfully marrying sprite-based nostalgia with modern 3D capabilities. Live A Live is lovely, full of eye-catching color schemes and memorable snapshots where Square has used the depth of its 3D backgrounds to full effect. That could be in memorable moments like a shinobi running over rooftops against a violet twilight, or sparkling sunlight dripping into a castle throne room.On the surface, all of Live A Live’s seven vignettes are disconnected, and it largely doesn’t matter which one you start or end with. You can even pick one up, put it down, start another, and return to the first later if it suits you; Live A Live will conveniently keep track of your progress in each story even if you save over a file, a feature I made a lot of use of as the discovery of numerous, fun hidden secrets prompted me to revisit chapters I’d thought I’d combed thoroughly.Not only do the different chapters take place in different eras, but each one distinguishes itself with unique characters and mechanics to suit them. In prehistory, for instance, language has yet to be invented, so all the storytelling brilliantly takes place with animation and imagery. Here and only here, the protagonist caveman Pogo can use his powerful sense of smell to track down the whereabouts of NPCs or enemies he’s looking for. The Edo period shinobi Oboromaru can cloak himself in shadow to hide from enemies and complete his entire chapter without killing a single human, or he can brutally murder his way through the manor he’s infiltrating. The Sundown Kid, a Wild West gunslinger, doesn’t fight nearly as much as the others – instead, he works with the local townsfolk to lay traps for the bad posse on its way to wreak havoc. Near Future’s Akira can read minds and teleport out of battle, though his teleport ability is intentionally a bit unreliable. Though quite different from one another, Live A Live’s ensemble cast all manage to endear themselves in their respective stories; I still can’t pick a favorite.The 2022 Live A Live remake’s characterization is further improved by the introduction of voice acting, which is present in all important story scenes. Both Japanese and English tracks are available, and while the English acting had some occasional awkwardness in chapters like Edo Japan, having voice acting at all was a net positive for an RPG so profoundly centered on building up an ensemble cast of interesting characters.The unique flavors of each protagonist, era, and theme play out in battle, too. While all seven characters use the same grid system to move about the field and launch attacks at foes in turn-based combat, Live A Live manages to theme each protagonist’s moves in ways that effectively reflect their personality. Oboromaru – a ninja – uses lots of area-of-effect abilities to lay traps on the field and force enemies to either move or take damage. Sundown has a gun, so everything he does is long range. Imperial China’s Earthen Heart shifu master can pass on battle techniques to his students as he trains them, while Present Day’s Masaru Takahara learns martial arts moves from his enemies. In the Far Future, the supportive robot Cube doesn’t fight at all, except in an optional arcade game located on their spaceship. Learning the ways in which each of the seven diverse characters can take advantage of the same battle system over the course of Live A Live was one of its pleasures, and I was more than once impressed by the ways in which the marriage of combat and character either furthered the plot or told me something interesting about a character I loved.Each chapter’s enemies are designed around the respective character’s unique abilities, and the deceptively simple grid system reveals plenty of tricks up its sleeves. The deeper I dug into each chapter, the more I was forced to reckon with the grid not just as a means to get my attacks lined up, but also as a tool for predicting enemy moves and avoiding them so my team wasn’t decimated. Some chapters have additional nuances, such as enemy weaknesses and resistances to certain types of attacks, or enemy captains that take the whole rest of the team with them when destroyed. Don’t underestimate Live A Live’s battle system, especially if you want to go after the well-hidden handful of ultrahard secret bosses scattered throughout several of its chapters.Released originally in Japan in 1994, Live A Live’s non-linear ensemble adventure never officially made it West until now, but has nonetheless served to inspire numerous beloved RPGs that have come since. Octopath Traveler did eventually give the pitch its dues in 2018 (though arguably not as effectively), and it’s even easier to see in Live A Live the bones of what director Takashi Tokita would later bring back together in Chrono Trigger in a more traditional story structure. Live A Live’s influence has also clearly touched its less direct successors, from modern Square RPGs like the Bravely games to indies like Undertale. The latter’s creator, Toby Fox, has openly talked about how Live A Live boss theme, Megalomania, inspired his own now-famous boss tune, the aptly-named Megalovania. On a historical basis alone, Live A Live is a must for RPG lovers who want to get to know the curious ancestor of some of the most celebrated games in the genre.All of Live A Live’s battle and field mechanics play beautifully in the context of each respective chapter, many of which lean gently, but not obnoxiously, into popular film, TV, and even gaming tropes. In their early hours, you might recognize the plot of Far Future from some popular science fiction films, Present Day is a clear homage to arcade fighting games, Near Future debuts with all the bombast of a mech anime, and Imperial China plays out like a stereotypical kung fu feature…until, suddenly, they don’t. While some of the vignettes are certainly stronger than others, they all manage in different ways to subvert the tropes they’re embracing. Were Live A Live merely a collection of its initial seven separate vignettes with loosely connected themes and ideas, I’d have walked away happy enough with my experience.But, wonderfully, there’s more.I don’t want to spoil Live A Live for those who are unaware of its biggest twists from the original ‘94 Japan release, and if you’re in that camp, I’m begging you to go in without looking anything up. What I can tell you is this: The best thing about Live A Live is the way it made me suspicious of what it was actually about, and then proved my suspicions correct before turning them on their head. As I played through these vignettes and reached their various endings, I quickly noticed a very obvious common thread between them, and expected that thread to reward me once I finished them all with something fairly obvious and RPG-like – an extra boss battle maybe, or a cutscene or two. What I got was a full 10 hours more of video game on top of the 15 or so it had taken me up to that point, stuffed with several major twists, deeply emotional and triumphant moments, multiple secrets and sidequests, and (heck yeah) multiple endings depending on the choices I made throughout. Thank you, Square Enix, for 20 separate save slots.My biggest issue with Live A Live, sadly, lay in that second half. While most of the seven vignettes are fairly tight, concise stories (except perhaps Near Future with its unnecessary errand-running around an orphanage), its final act is full of obnoxiously grindy random battles that slow its momentum to a crawl. I cannot fathom why the last hours use this mechanism, when literally any other battle system, including avoidable enemies roaming the overworld or even just a toggle to turn encounters off, would have done fine. Hardly any of the other vignettes include random battles, and while there’s a certain amount of fighting I needed to do to face the final challenge, there was a clear point at which grinding became trivial and I was running from fights every five to 10 seconds or so. In Live A Live’s defense, I do see how the excessive random battles are playing on a genre trope it otherwise very effectively subverts, but at a certain point that trope falls away and is just exhausting.Which is a shame, because this segment was the part of Live A Live where I was consistently on the edge of my seat, wanting to know what would happen next. I don’t think the excessive random encounters dramatically damaged my enthusiasm, but given how utterly un-grindy the first 15 hours are, it’s certainly a frustration I’d recommend that you prepare yourself for – especially if you (like me) want to visit all the optional dungeons and explore all the secrets available in the late game. Those just booking it to the final battle will have an easier time.I can’t forget to mention the soundtrack by Yoko Shimomura of Kingdom Hearts fame and much more. Her original score for Live A Live was excellent on its own, and with modern audio capabilities and her own 2022 revisions it’s only gotten better. The boss theme, Megalomania, is rightfully remembered as being among her best work, and I’ve had the remake version playing on loop for days now.
Madison Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/madison-review|With an elaborate set of puzzles to solve and no shortage of jolting jump scares to shock you with, unraveling the morbid central mystery of Madison is a bit like trying to evacuate an escape room while simultaneously struggling to prevent the vacuation of your bowels. Taking clear inspiration from Hideo Kojima’s superb 2014 Silent Hill teaser demo, P.T., Madison layers on the clever use of a Polaroid camera for puzzle-solving and exploration with consistently compelling results. It might not be as expertly structured as the spiraling, psychological horror hallways of Kojima’s much revered concept, but Madison’s haunted house is certainly scary enough to be situated somewhere in the same neighborhood.In Madison you play as Luca, a teenage boy who wakes in his family home covered in blood and haunted by a malignant presence. Luca’s only chance to escape is to puzzle his way through a sequence of increasingly taxing riddles and complete the distressing steps of a demonic ritual, in a structurally unsteady homestead that shifts and recalibrates around him in frequently disorientating ways. It’s a hair-raising residence that I found consistently absorbing to explore, since I could never be sure if the basement I was descending to would suddenly morph into the hellish hallucination of a murder scene, or would merely be a basement that was creepy for… Well, regular creepy basement reasons.Armed with only a Polaroid camera, Luca’s plight is one that strictly favours flight over fight. Although there are supernatural nasties to encounter at times there’s no real combat to speak of, and instead the only thing that Luca has to battle with is the growing realization that there’s more than a few alarming truths buried amidst the roots of his family tree. Actor Jacob Judge delivers a panicked portrayal of Luca that comes across as a bit too whiny at times, but I was happy enough to endure his hysterics since they at least seemed more in step with each disturbing revelation than the oddly apathetic performances of certain other horror game leads (looking at you, Resident Evil Village’s Ethan Winters). I was compelled by Luca’s journey all the way to its bleak conclusion, even if the increasingly predictable events of Madison’s final hours didn’t quite have the same surprising twists and turns as the contorting corridors of its setting.Madison’s puzzles may seem initially straightforward, like finding triangular-shaped keys to fit triangular-shaped locks, but they quickly grow into more complex riddles that demand a considerable amount of lateral thinking. In one standout section you have to use the supernatural powers of the camera to blink back and forth between three distinct time periods as you explore a maze of art exhibits in the darkened corners of a creepy cathedral, which requires a particularly methodical approach. It rarely repeats the same type of puzzle twice, and more often than not each brainteaser it springs upon you successfully manages to generate some head-scratching without ever resulting in hair-pulling.The Polaroid camera can often be used to reveal puzzle clues in the environment that are otherwise obscured to the naked eye, and it was always rewarding to shake a freshly snapped shot and see a hidden message slowly come to light, typically smeared in blood. But the camera doesn’t just provide satisfying “A-ha!” moments – it also has its fair share of spine-chilling “Argh!” moments, too. I frequently found myself in pitch-black environments with the camera’s flash as my only means to briefly light up my surroundings in order to find my way forward. Not knowing whether a quick snap would expose a dull dead end or a dead-eyed demon made me hesitate every time my finger hovered over the camera’s shutter release, which kept my anxiety levels high.The Polaroid camera isn’t the only piece of retro tech at Luca’s fingertips; in the absence of any other human characters to interact with a lot of Madison’s plot is delivered via audio recordings found on cassette tapes. I reveled in the disturbing details drip-fed through each recording, although such is the surreal nature of Madison’s surroundings that I couldn’t tell if the curious way Luca listened to cassette tapes by holding them in his hand while the spindles spun was by abstract design or just an unfortunate graphical bug that rendered the tape player invisible.One thing I am confident of is that Madison’s ambient audio design is extremely well done, particularly when experienced through headphones. Each tentative step taken through this foreboding abode is accompanied by a nerve-scraping symphony of rusty door hinge-squeaks, demonic whispers, and distorted TV news bulletins flickering on and off, which kept me constantly checking over my shoulder. The actual musical score itself is minimal, but its sudden orchestral stabs are used to reinforce each jump scare to startlingly good effect. On that note, there are a lot of jump scares in Madison and they really ramp up in frequency towards its end, but they’re conjured up in so many creative new ways that I never became immune to them. Channeling everything from Layers of Fear to the sinister storybook imagery of The Babadook, it inflicted enough sharp spikes to my heart rate to make my smartwatch wonder if I'd suddenly started a workout.While Madison regularly trapped me in environmental loops of the intentionally unsettling variety, it also occasionally forced me to retrace my steps for all the wrong reasons; namely to ferry items back and forth thanks to the needlessly restrictive inventory management. Luca can only carry up to eight items at a time – although practically speaking it’s more like five since his camera, notebook, and collection of photos can’t ever be discarded – and everything else must be stored in a stationary storage container a la Resident Evil. Being pressured to decide whether to carry pistol ammo or extra medkits might be an effective way to maintain tension and risk in survival horror games, but here it just feels like an arbitrary inclusion that made solving certain puzzles more cumbersome than it could have been. Having to slowly backtrack from one end of the house to the other because you opted to carry the crowbar when you actually needed the bolt cutters just adds unwanted padding to the overall sense of progress – particularly since Luca’s running speed is relatively sluggish.Similarly, while many objects in your surroundings tend to shift around when your back is turned to often terrifying effect, Madison also introduces crucial new items in the same manner, which means they are often easily overlooked. As a result I found myself completely stuck for a handful of lengthy stretches at a time, trying and retrying every item in my inventory on a puzzle and wandering around snapping photos of everything in sight to see if I could uncover some hidden clues, when it turned out what I actually needed was a tiny object sitting on a door sill somewhere that simply wasn’t there the first dozen or so times I walked past it. That’s not creepy, it’s just annoying. I remained thoroughly engrossed more often than not throughout my six-hour stay in Madison’s manor, but I can’t help but feel that ditching the inventory management and progress-halting pixel-hunts could have knocked an hour or two off its runtime and kept its tension levels even tighter.
Matchpoint Tennis Championships Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/matchpoint-tennis-championships-review|Australia’s Nick Kyrgios is the top spun maverick of the tennis world, a controversy-courting Happy Gilmore-like figure who doesn’t so much as march to the beat of his own drum as strap on a pair of bright-red basketball sneakers and shamelessly stomp all over Wimbledon’s stuffy, all-white traditions. His prominent placement on the cover of Matchpoint: Tennis Championships sets the expectation that developer Torus Games’ debut tennis simulation is poised to finally shake things up for the stagnating tennis genre… but sadly, that hasn’t proven to be the case. A smooth yet imbalanced style of play, uninspiring career mode, and surprisingly limited multiplayer support means the only trait that Matchpoint shares with its provocative cover star is an overriding sense of squandered potential.To its credit, Matchpoint’s uncluttered control setup makes it supremely easy to pick up. Your player’s movement is heavily assisted so that you only need to nudge the thumbstick in the general direction of a returned ball and they’ll be automatically guided to the ideal position in order to meet it. This allows you to keep your focus squarely on your opponent’s side of the court, where you can steer around a dinner plate-sized reticle and pull off a standard array of tennis shots with a level of pinpoint accuracy that goes beyond Djokavic to border on Jedi levels of precision.It’s a rally system that’s certainly reliable and offers you plenty of freedom, but it’s also one that’s a bit too easy to master since it’s all reward and very little risk. The window for timing your shots is exceedingly generous, and you’re not really penalized in any way for overcooking a shot or serve. There are probably computerized ball machines that have made more unforced errors than I have in my 20 or so hours played – you almost have to go out of your way to actually hit the ball outside of the lines, and can pull off crosscourt shots at impossible angles without batting an eyelid. So yes, Matchpoint successfully makes me feel like some sort of hard-tuned tennis terminator… But when you’re confident you can nail a passing shot from almost anywhere it results in rallies that have about as much tension as a tennis racquet strung with spaghetti.The ability to paint the lines so effortlessly is also detrimental to Matchpoint’s career mode, since it makes the progression system seem almost entirely unnecessary. While my created player began with modest levels of shot power and spin, his accuracy was laser-guided from the outset. That meant that from day one on the tour I was hitting about 50 clear winners for every one that landed wide. The size of the aiming reticle and your unerring ability to hit it remains consistent throughout, and even with the difficulty dialed up to the highest setting I stormed my way to seven consecutive tournament victories and was world number one within the first few months of my career; this despite having completed just one of the stat-boosting training mini-games along the way.Admittedly it’s something of a blessing that these training mini-games can be skipped, since they’re either utterly mundane (like when you have to play a game of Simon Says for groundstrokes) or clumsily implemented (like the drill for serving aces that puts you up against a receiver standing so wide of the service box they may as well be signing autographs). But completing these simple training drills is about as deep as the management aspect of Matchpoint’s career goes, which made me feel pretty uninvested in my player’s success. There are no sponsorship deals to consider or injury niggles to take into account, and instead you basically just roll from one indistinct, unlicensed tennis tournament to the next, snatching up more silverware than a sticky-fingered butler in Buckingham Palace.At least I assume the trophies are silver, because Matchpoint doesn’t actually ever show them to you. While the animations of the players are smooth and the courtside detail is crisp, there’s a noticeable lack of life and no real sense of occasion imbued in each competition, with every tournament culminating in the same static result screen. There’s no trophy presentation after a final, no handshakes between players, no statistical overlays in the broadcast presentation, and the small handful of faces in the crowd are so heavily reused it’s almost as though the stadium tickets were having a “buy one get two free” promotions for sets of identical triplets.Similar cosmetic limitations are also inflicted on your created player. With just a handful of heads and haircuts to choose from, and no option to customise service motions or grunts of exertion, it’s almost impossible to produce anyone other than either John or Jane Smith from the United States of Generica. Even worse, while the 18 licensed professionals in Matchpoint each come dressed in branded gear from the likes of Nike and Adidas, the clothing and equipment available to your player is of the strictly no-name variety. It’s a bitter pill to swallow when you strut out onto centre court surrounded by advertising boards from big names like Asics and Wilson, and you’re clad in a t-shirt and shorts that seem fresh from your mum’s sewing machine, clutching an off-brand tennis racket that appears to have been bought from a dodgy ad on Facebook.While you occasionally come up against real-world guns like Daniil Medvedev and Taylor Fritz on the men’s tour, and Victoria Azarenka and Madison Keys on the women’s, an overwhelming number of matches in Matchpoint’s career are played against fictional opponents. While it’s pretty hard to tell these carbon-copy competitors apart since they’re cut from the same restricted character creation toolset as your avatar, Matchpoint does at least attempt to inject some individuality into each of them by giving them a handful of strengths and weaknesses that can be uncovered during a match.You don’t get to intuitively identify these traits, mind you, but rather they are spelled out by a distracting splash of text that pops up in the top-right corner of the screen mid-rally. One opponent might get impatient during a prolonged exchange and have a tendency to rush the net, for example, while another might start serving harder the more aces they rack up in a service game. It’s an interesting idea on paper, but in practice it had very little effect on how I approached each point, and because of that it felt like an artificial way to force a change in strategy that wasn’t ever actually required. Each AI opponent I faced may as well have had a weakness for red velvet cupcakes for all the difference it made to how I played against them, as I consistently worked each of them out of position before biffing another perfectly placed winner a few millimeters inside the baseline.Desperate for a modicum of challenge I eventually tried disabling the aiming marker entirely in the options menu, but targeting by feel alone shifted shot difficulty so far in the other direction that it only forced me into a more conservative and attritional style of play; knocking the ball back towards the centre of the court until my opponent inevitably made a mistake, which soon became dull. I wish the developers had been able to find some kind of compromise between the superhuman sharpshooting afforded by the aiming marker and the nebulous guesswork involved in going without it.Of course, there’s considerably more nuance to be found when tackling human opponents, and it’s as a multiplayer game that Matchpoint is at its best since it puts you head to head with a player theoretically equipped with the same sideline-searing skills as you. It’s a shame, then, that options for multiplayer are so sparse. Online play is restricted to either casual or ranked one-off matches, with no option to create or enter tournaments. Worse still, all multiplayer matches – both online and off – are strictly singles-only, as though you went to sign up for a tennis club membership but accidentally landed on the registration page for eHarmony.It seems almost unfathomable that a tennis game released in 2022 lacks what has long become such an enjoyable and expected feature of the genre in the form of doubles play, but it’s not the only Matchpoint design call that needs to be challenged. I’m also wondering why I’m forced to play a qualifying set at the start of every tournament in the career mode, even when I’m ranked number one in the world, or why there are 13 licensed male players included and only five women. And of course the most ironic call I want to challenge: why haven’t I been given the ability to challenge any of the umpire’s calls? Line-call challenges have been a part of professional tennis for over 15 years, so it’s weird that they’re not included here – particularly when Matchpoint’s line judges have a tendency to miss more calls than a dead man’s phone.
Neon White Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/neon-white-review|A brash blend of lightning-quick platforming, fast and frantic combat, and a peculiar, card-based resource system, Neon White is a slick and special speedrunning FPS that’s simple to understand but hard to put down. Think Doom Eternal’s platforming sections, only replace the grim hellscapes with the floating architecture of an abstract heaven and you’re part of the way there. Add a little of Trials HD trying to ride the perfect route over the corpse of Mirror’s Edge and you’ll be even closer. With its precise and elegant controls and its uncanny ability to make even an average shooter player feel lithe and lethal it’s extremely easy to get lured into Neon White’s loop, even if the story stitching it all together immediately overstays its welcome.Neon White’s oddball premise – which sees sinners plucked from purgatory to serve as parkour pest-exterminators, clearing out a demon infestation in heaven as part of an annual contest where the winner gets to remain there – certainly sounds interesting on paper. In practice, however, it makes a large portion of Neon White a young adult visual novel where a bunch of brightly-coloured, dead millennials reminisce about their past lives and argue a bunch. I do appreciate the effort to slow down and add context to the 12 chapters and 97 levels developer Angel Matrix has built here – rather than just machine-gunning them directly into our veins non-stop, that is – but overall Neon White’s slightly over-assertive blend of pop-punk Christianity and off-brand anime didn’t grab me. You can fast-forward through it, but it’s always there.This makes for a lot of chat to wade through outside of the otherwise impeccable puzzle platforming, delivered by a cast of goths, gym bros, and cloud-riding capsule toys that are as irritating as they are horny. There’s the titular White, a spindly-legged man who wears three belts – none of which appear connected to his trousers – and who likes to stand with his shoulders pulled back and his crotch thrust forward. Then there’s Violet, a knife-wielding pixie with an infantilised voice that’d open a remote garage door, and who seems like the kind of woman who’d dot the i’s on her ransom letters with love hearts. There’s also a cigar-chomping cat, a BDSM redhead in a collar, and a spiky-haired meathead. It’s like the first page of a Deviantart search up in here.If this is exactly what you’re after, you’re in luck. For me, I honestly can’t tell whether the dialogue is deliberately bad or accidentally bad – but I guess it’s probably immaterial, because there’s no real difference in the end result.Despite the fact there are vast slabs of this visual novel regularly wedged throughout Neon White, it’s a testament to the quality of the action itself that it’s well worth enduring. Inside the levels themselves Neon White takes on a completely separate identity, where the hokeyness is elbowed aside for some absolutely razor-sharp FPS action.The objective? Kill all enemies and reach the exit as quickly as possible. The catch? Each level is a parkour puzzle, and reaching the end within the allotted time limits requires judicious juggling of the finite weapon and ability cards. Why are they cards? Other than allowing White to briefly look like an edgy street magician in the intro movie, I don’t know – but it works. Each card grants White the limited use of a weapon, alongside the use of a one-time secondary ability. The pistol turns into a double-jump, the rifle a high-speed air-dash, and the machine gun a destructive grenade that doubles as a vertical boost. Shotguns turn White into a sailing fireball, rocket launchers become grappling hooks, and SMGs become devastating ground pounds.Using an ability to clear a gap, breach an obstacle, or destroy an enemy burns the card that granted it – but there’s always another. The beauty of Neon White is that the precise assortment of cards you’ll need to nail a level is always there – it’s just up to you to gather and execute them all in the perfect spots. This ended up being a lot less intimidating than I’d feared as there’s a very well-considered visual language at work within Neon White. With sharp and simple graphics and very deliberate use of colour, Neon White usually makes it quite clear which direction you need to travel, the barriers you can smash, and the gaps you need to leap. It’s remarkably intuitive, seeping its way into my brain before I’d even realised it. There were definitely instances where I’d find myself jumping into a void during a first run through a level and dying without a clear idea of where I was supposed to be headed, but these were exceptions.As a result, Neon White boasts not only a marvellous sense of momentum, but also a fantastic ability to flatter you. There were certainly many occasions during Neon White where I felt like the greatest dead parkour assassin in the universe; breathless moments where I’d reached the end of a level and picked up my trophy by bounding and blasting by the seat of my pants, and playing the footage back felt like watching someone else playing. Someone much better than me. For an entirely unexceptional shooter player, Neon White’s capacity to make you feel like you look good playing it is a real credit.Better still, the faster you go, the more it encourages you to keep improving – first by giving you your own ghost to chase, and next by revealing new shortcuts to you. After mastering the moves I found myself searching for other hidden jumps and bits of level geometry that could be scaled or exploited. It hooks you into its just-one-more-try loop. Levels can take between 10 to 20 seconds to a few minutes, although the sweet spot seems to be around a minute-or-less. The longer levels and boss battles towards Neon White’s end do introduce a potent new card and some new traversal techniques, but I found these pretty tiresome on account of their punishing lengths. With no mid-level checkpoints by design (and extremely limited health) the longer levels are honestly just more frustrating than fun.
Cuphead: The Delicious Last Course Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/cuphead-the-delicious-last-course-review|Despite what the title suggests, Cuphead: The Delicious Last Course is much more than just a fancy flan or fruit tart to top off the gourmet meal that was the original game. This is an expansion that certainly favors quality over quantity, consisting primarily of only six mainline boss fights, but they’re six incredible boss fights that each stand tall as some of the most fun, challenging, and visually jaw-dropping ones yet. Sweetening the pot are several new weapons, new charms that each add subtle new approaches to fighting bosses, some tantalizing secrets with worthwhile reward, and a brand new character in Ms. Chalice, who comes with several skills that take some of the edge off of Cuphead’s intense difficulty without outright feeling like an “easy mode.”. My first playthrough was over in just a few hours, but they were hours I’d deem essential for any Cuphead fan.The Delicious Last Course is all about making Ms. Chalice, a character who appeared in the main game only as a super-move-granting spirit, a real living and breathing cup person. To that end, Cuphead and his pal Mugman head towards a brand new isle where they’re told that Chef Saltbaker, the greatest chef in the land, is able to create a Wondertart that can permanently grant Ms. Chalice a body. The catch, of course, is that they must collect its ingredients by defeating the powerful foes that are guarding them. The story obviously isn’t the reason anyone is here, but it’s nonetheless charmingly told with quick cutscenes and more of the outstanding art that fans have come to expect.Thus the stage is set for another round of some of the most spectacular 2D action-platformer bosses I’ve ever faced. The content of The Delicious Last Course is accessible nearly right from the start of a new game, just after you clear the first mausoleum and meet Ms. Chalice for the first time – but if you’re new or rusty, you’ll definitely want to get your feet wet with some other foes first as the six bosses in this DLC do not pull their punches.The very first one has you contending with projectiles in the air, spikes on the ground that force you to keep moving, shifting platforms that put you in danger if they raise you up at the wrong time, little gnomes that emerge from the floor to shoot more projectiles at you, and more gnomes that appear on the platforms and will hammer you if you stay on for too long. And that’s just the first phase.While the mechanical difficulty of the bosses in The Delicious Last Course are cranked up, Studio MDHR is not without mercy. There’s of course still an easier difficulty, but there are also a number of new charms and weapons that help tip the scales back in your favor, including the one that lets you play as Ms. Chalice herself. When you play as Ms. Chalice, you’re unable to equip any other charms, but she comes naturally equipped with a double jump, a dodge that she can use while on the ground to roll through obstacles, a dashing parry that makes it much easier to parry objects coming straight at you, and most crucially, four HP instead of the standard three.Some may look at that and think “oh, so it’s essentially an extra easy mode,” but that’s not quite right. Ms. Chalice also has a much worse single jump than Cuphead, so she has to use her double jump in order to get over certain obstacles that Cuphead would easily be able to clear; her dash parry is great for objects coming straight towards her, but is harder to use than the traditional double jump parry in some situations; and she’s unable to equip any of the other powerful charms that are available – like my new personal favorite, the heart ring, which rewards you with HP on your first, third, and sixth parries, essentially giving you the ability to double your HP if you can successfully parry a boss’s attacks. Another powerful one is the Coffee charm, which passively refills your super meter alongside all of the normal ways to build it, meaning you get access to your super moves far more regularly.As for the new weapons, I'm a big fan of the homing weapon called the Crackshot, which can be fired without worrying too much about aiming and has a special EX move that drops a turret, which can then be parried and launched into an enemy for big damage. Another great new addition is the Converge shot, which fires three full-screen projectiles in a wide spread, and that spread can be constricted by holding down the aim button. It’s a great weapon for quickly clearing out small weak enemies that get spawned by a boss, making it a perfect pairing for my usual go-to weapon, the Charge shot.To get the coins needed to afford these new weapons and charms, The Delicious Last Course introduces a replacement for the run-and-gun levels of the main game in the form of a series of mini bosses led by the King of Games. Early on in the DLC, you’ll be able to climb a ladder to reach the King of Games’ castle (which is a totally awesome hand-sculpted stop motion model, by the way), and from there you’re free to challenge his champions. The catch is that each of these chess piece themed mini-boss fights aren’t won with your weapons or charms – they’re won entirely with your parry technique. One fight requires you to parry all of the tops of an army of pawns, while another requires you to blow out a bunch of candles in order to make the boss damageable with a parry. They’re all clever fights, and tackling them is a fun change of pace and a unique challenge, especially when you try the gauntlet mode and attempt to beat them all in a single life. More than anything though, it’s certainly a step up over the run-and-gun levels when it comes to earning the currency needed to purchase new equipment.Everything else in The Delicious Last Course is what you’d expect from Cuphead, but taken to an even greater degree. Studio MDHR’s Maja Moldenhauer has stated that the animation frame count in this DLC alone is comparable to the entire core game, which sounded crazy to even think about before playing – but now that I have, it’s not a hard thing to believe. Every phase of every boss in The Delicious Last Course totally transforms the battle. You’ll go from fighting an ice magician to a diabolical refrigerator to a deranged snowflake all over the course of one fight, with each phase having anywhere from three to seven unique attacks, and each attack being so absurdly packed with detail that I didn't even notice most of the smaller bits until I recorded and watched back my footage. That includes things like the way those gnomes climb up the side of the mountain and scootch under the fur, the way the background subtly changes during every phase of the fight against Sheriff Winchester, or the way the aforementioned deranged snowflake literally wrings its own body to pop out its eye for one of its attacks.The magic of Cuphead’s boss design, and something that all of the bosses in this DLC exemplify, is that while it throws a ton of stuff at you, everything is generally pretty easy to avoid if you know it's coming. Every attack is exceptionally well telegraphed, patterns are easily recognizable, and the visual language is always simple and clear. So even if I was expected to do something that’s not normally very intuitive, like parrying a pink bell to close the mouth of a cow skull floating in acid in order to create a platform, it’s something that I can quickly pick up on because I had already been taught to parry pink objects before now. The Delicious Last Course skillfully nails that hard to hit balance of being tough but fair, and saves the truly difficult stuff for expert mode, which provides a very worthwhile challenge for hardcore fans once the main campaign is completed. And for those that want even more of a challenge, well there’s something for you too, but I wouldn’t want to spoil what it is or how to get it.
Monster Hunter Rise: Sunbreak Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/monster-hunter-rise-sunbreak-review|Alright, let’s do this one more time: you are a hunter, and monsters are threatening your adorable little town. You’re given a quest list full of creatures to track down and turn into funny hats, and you’ll do just that until the townsfolk are safe, your build is optimized, and your outfit is as fly as your wirebugs. If you played Monster Hunter World’s Iceborne expansion, or pretty much any of Monster Hunter’s major re-releases before it, then Monster Hunter Rise: Sunbreak is going to be a very familiar Palamute ride through the park. It’s a formulaic DLC full of exciting new foes and a couple cool new locales – and even though it doesn’t really have a ton of interesting surprises of its own, the quality of those additions reinforces just how fun that formula can be.Sunbreak is essentially structured like a brand new game, introducing the functionally identical hub town of Elgado to operate out of and a fresh storyline to follow there. That story is, once again, a largely ignorable and entirely predictable tale about how something is making the local monsters all hot and bothered, this time set in the European-themed Kingdom rather than the Japanese-inspired Kamura. Its characters are at least slightly more interesting this time around, but plot has never been the draw of Monster Hunter and that certainly doesn’t change here."Monster Hunter Rise mixes classic Monster Hunter ideas with some of World’s best improvements and a whole bunch of clever new mechanics of its own. Not all of them are slam dunks, but they are all fun – and the introduction of Wirebugs and the mobility they bring to every fight is so great I never want to give them up." - Tom Marks, March 23, 2021Read the full Monster Hunter Rise review.As has become a time-honored tradition, the expansion immediately makes all of your gear irrelevant by introducing Master Rank: a higher tier of hunts full of more difficult versions of the base game’s monsters, as well as an assortment of new and returning monsters to take on. That’s not a complaint, though, as it is legitimately fun to have the bar reset so drastically, with plenty of powerful armor pieces and weapon upgrades to gleefully chase all over again. And while it’s by no means a new trick in Monster Hunter’s bag, one of Master Rank’s greatest strengths has always been that it gives monsters altered behaviors and fresh moves to make them a renewed challenge without just raising their stats.Both the brand new monsters and the ones returning from previous Monster Hunter games continue Rise’s trend of being as stellar to look at as they are to fight. A new trio referred to as the “Three Lords” are all particularly great: Garangolm’s rocky ape-like appearance disguises its explosive mobility and surprising elemental effects; Lunagaron puts a fun twist on a traditional werewolf theme; and Malzeno’s vampire-inspired moveset genuinely shocked me the first time I saw it blink around the battlefield. Older returning foes like Astalos and Gore Magala fit right in as well, looking better than ever while providing an excitingly fresh challenge for anyone who hasn’t had a chance to face them before.As for where you’ll do that, Sunbreak adds two new locales: the Jungle, a tropical island originally introduced in Monster Hunter 2 that has been masterfully reimagined thanks to Rise’s seamless 3D maps, and the Citadel, a delightfully eclectic space that can stretch a single hunt from poisoned swamps to snowy peaks to a huge ruined castle. While I liked the Citadel more thematically, the Jungle’s condensed layout makes it Rise’s most convenient map to hunt on yet. It feels as if it learned the valuable lesson that collecting Spiribirds for a stat boost at the start of each quest shouldn’t be such a hassle, giving you a huge patch of them just a Wirebug-ride away from your starting tent. But both locales are quite entertaining to explore in their own ways, packed with even more little secrets waiting to be found.Speaking of fixing some of the mistakes of Rise, Rampages have been given the boot to an almost comical degree. The Rampage weapon tree is practically the only one that doesn’t get extended with new upgrade options, Rampage quests don’t seem to have been updated in any way, and new weapons scrap the Rampage Skill system entirely in favor of a decoration slot only fillable with special Rampage decorations (which have no connection beyond the name). It’s a stunning reversal, though not an entirely surprising one given how dull the repetitive nature of Rampage quests eventually became.While I’m not shedding any tears over the abandonment of Rampages, it also stands out that nothing has been introduced to take their place. I was glad Capcom decided to experiment with a new quest type like that, even if its appeal ultimately didn’t last, and the fact that a central feature of Rise has been gutted rather than improved in Sunbreak leaves this expansion feeling far thinner. That’s especially true compared to Iceborne, which introduced clever new ideas of its own to World, most notably the Guiding Lands as an interesting take on its endgame. In contrast, later on Sunbreak just ramps up monster difficulty with a small but amusing twist I can’t spoil – and while that’s certainly kept me happily playing, it doesn’t inspire the same sort of newfound excitement.To be clear, there is plenty to do in Sunbreak. After 45+ hours I still have gear I want to chase and optional tasks to complete, but there just aren’t that many fresh ideas to help it stand out as a whole lot more than a bunch of cool new monsters to fight. To that end, nearly every mainline quest sticks to the standard hunt format, with nothing like World’s colossal Zorah Magdaros fights, Iceborne’s Seliana defense against Velkhana, or even Rise’s admittedly one-note Rampages to at least try and shake things up. Again, every single quest I went on was still a ton of fun, but Sunbreak can start feeling pretty familiar by the end.The one place it does do something truly interesting is in its Follower quests. As you progress up Master Rank, townsfolk in both Elgado and Kamura will ask to accompany you on specific single-player quests as AI-controlled hunters. Doing their quests will unlock those people as options in Support Survey quests (also limited to single-player) where you can pick two as your party members. The hunts themselves aren’t exactly challenging or unique, but the AI is surprisingly sophisticated, using items, mounting monsters, and even placing traps before standing behind them and emoting for you to come and wait with them.It’s not as robust as a whole single-player campaign or anything, with Follower quests still initially unlocked through multiplayer story progress, but it does make grinding for specific monster parts on your own a lot more fun. The followers you bring along will banter amusingly with each other during a quest, and it was nice to get to know these characters better by actually going out into the field and hunting with them. Followers are so well implemented, in fact, that it’s a bit disappointing you can’t use them to fill empty seats in multiplayer quests as well. It seems like a pointless restriction, especially when a follower can sometimes accompany you into a handful of specific multiplayer Urgent quests.Apart from the big additions, Sunbreak brings a slew of quality of life improvements. One notably smart tweak to the way you pick your pre-hunt meals lets you alter the effectiveness of each dango ability by changing on the order you select them, adding some neat decision-making to the process. You can now quickly swap between two loadouts of Switch Skills in the middle of a hunt too, massively expanding your potential moveset. Similarly, buddies can be customized more than ever, letting you change out special moves to build the ultimate Palico without having to rely as much on finding your ideal randomized cat. There’s nothing earth-shattering in all these updates, but it’s great that pretty much every system has been touched in some welcome way.
Capcom Fighting Collection Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/capcom-fighting-collection-review|It’s hard to find a publisher more synonymous with fighting games than Capcom. From dominating arcades to taking over our home consoles with Street Fighter II, Capcom has been a mainstay of the genre from the beginning. Enter the Capcom Fighting Collection: a polished package of 10 games that range from the familiar Hyper Street Fighter II: The Anniversary Edition and Super Puzzle Fighter 2 Turbo, all the way to obscurities like the alternate roster versions of Darkstalkers 3, the confusingly titled Vampire Hunter 2, and Vampire Savior 2.With its bevy of modern features including rollback netcode for online play, training modes, and a museum with tons of art and music, the Capcom Fighting Collection does great justice to this publisher’s storied legacy, with only a couple notable omissions in both its game library and extra features to hold it back.The Capcom Fighting Collection makes a great first impression – the menus are snappy and responsive, there’s excellent custom art, and a goofy, yet endearing theme song greets you upon booting it up. It’s conveniently laid out, too: rather than keeping individual menus locked inside each game, you’re able to get right to where you want to go from the game selection screen, whether that’s training, arcade mode, or whatever else. Both English and Japanese versions of each game are included, and it’s fun to see how games and series try to maintain continuity between countries. I’m currently staring at a list of the Darkstalkers games right now, and I still have trouble keeping all of them straight – I just know that Vampire is probably somewhere in the title.Swapping between games is incredibly quick and easy with minimal loading, at least on PC. You can move between training modes of different games in under 20 seconds, and I mean that as in going from actually playing one game to actually playing the other. You can even choose whether or not you want to skip the boot screen of each game so you can get into them faster. Those may seem like small things, but collections like this can sometimes be held together with duct tape and a poor UI, so it’s comforting to see that there are some thoughtful choices here that make the Capcom Fighting Collection a smooth experience to navigate. The training modes themselves don’t include tutorials, just methods for setting up different opponent behaviors and interactions, but I genuinely had a lot of fun diving deep into the decades of forum posts and guides out there built by dedicated communities. There's also a quick save slot, so if you need to hop out of a particular game you can come right back to where you left off.Of course, there’s no point in having great wrapping paper if all you’re getting is a lump of coal, so let’s take a look at what’s included.The 1991 classic Street Fighter II is a known quantity to most at this point, and the version in this collection is a small collection of its own in the form of the Anniversary Edition of Hyper Fighting previously released in 2004. From the character select menu you can choose the game speed and which version of Street Fighter II’s roster you want to use, from the base game all the way up to Super Turbo. But that doesn’t limit which roster you can play against in multiplayer, so your dream of pitting your vanilla Street Fighter II Zangief against your friend’s Super Turbo Sagat can finally be realized.If you prefer your Street Fighter characters to be both smaller and cuter, 1997’s Super Gem Fighter Mini Mix (known as Pocket Fighter in Japan) is a strange spin on a 2D fighter, with characters from Darkstalkers and even Red Earth making appearances. It’s not the deepest competitive experience, but there’s still a lot of silly fun to be had, including auto-combos that transform your character, and collectible gems and items that can be used during combat.An anomaly on this list, as it’s not an actual fighter, 1996’s Super Puzzle Fighter 2 Turbo is still one of the best competitive puzzle games out there, and the art, animation, and gameplay remain top-notch in this collection. True to the original, getting a boatload of gems dropped on your face is just as frustrating as ever.Cyberbots: Full Metal Madness is a mech-battling 2D fighter from 1995, and Red Earth is a fantasy-based boss rush RPG lite with a roster of only four playable characters that first came out in 1996. Since they never got much play outside of Japan I have little to no experience with these games, with my sole exposure to Cyberbots being the inclusion of Jin in the Marvel vs. Capcom series, but both games seem to be fully intact, including an arcade mode, local and online multiplayer, and a training mode.A bit Michael Bay in here.Cyberbots, a spin-off of arcade beat-em-up Armored Warriors, is a 3-button fighter with two attacks, a projectile weapon button, and a dash button allowing you to move in all eight directions mid-air. It has a lot of cool ideas, including a separate meter tied to your projectile cooldown and the ability to knock off your opponent’s arm, drastically reducing their moveset. But while it’s easy to control and I mostly enjoyed my time with it, the chunky design of the mechs combined with the high speed of movement sometimes made the action hard to follow, especially in the corner. This led to some frustrating situations as I couldn’t tell where my hitbox ended and my enemy’s began. I plan to put more time into it going forward since it’s so weird and I’m definitely intrigued, but as of right now it’s at the bottom of my list when it comes to the collection.I enjoyed my time with Red Earth more than Cyberbots as it’s just so different than most fighting games released today. Despite the small roster, the novelty of facing off against mostly custom bosses rather than other playable characters while leveling up and gaining new moves in the quest mode lent it a novelty not seen in the other 2D fighting games, and it’s awesome that this previously obscure piece of fighting game history is now much more easily played.The rest of the list is all Darkstalkers games, with both the English and Japanese releases of 1, 2, and 3 included, as well as the aforementioned alternate roster versions of 3. I’d imagine that this is going to be where many classic fighting games fans are going to spend their time, as the Darkstalkers community has been singing the franchise’s praises and asking for Capcom to give it more attention ever since the release of Darkstalkers Resurrection in 2013 on Xbox 360 and PS3. Being relatively ignorant of Darkstalkers in the past, I enjoyed searching through old forums and guides to learn tricks for optimal movement, blockstrings, and combos, and why Sasquatch should have been the Darkstalkers mascot over Morrigan. Sasquatch for life.In an appreciated act of transparency, Capcom has listed the ROM version of each game in both the main menu and on their website. Every game in the Capcom Fighting Game Collection feels great to play, allowing you to further simplify controls in any of them by assigning entire moves, specials, or even supers to the press of one button. It may be heresy for competitive players, but for those just looking to jump into a classic and have their character immediately do some cool stuff on screen, it’s a welcome inclusion. I’d go so far as to say it’s one that all collections of old games like this should have, especially considering that you can turn that option off in lobbies and matchmaking if you don’t want your opponents taking advantage of it, and it’s also toggled off by default when queuing for ranked matches.Darkstalkers is still very cool in 2022.The biggest miss from this collection is that there’s not a single version of Street Fighter 3. Despite launching as somewhat of a disappointment due to having almost no recognizable characters and the fact that it was just plain weird, Street Fighter 3: New Generation eventually gave way to Street Fighter 3: Third Strike, often heralded as one of the best fighting games of all time. SF3 was last released in 2018’s Street Fighter 30th Anniversary Collection, so it’s not like it’s hard to come by, but it would have been great to have an updated version with this modern netcode. It seems like a glaring omission for a package that gets so many of the little things right. And speaking of the little things…Baked into the pause menu of each game are seven different filter options, ranging from simulated scanlines to smoothed-out pixels. I can’t say I’ve ever been a fan of simulating a CRT on a modern screen because the clarity just can’t keep up on most current displays, but I did find myself liking how some of them looked here, especially while playing Vampire Savior. There are also multiple options for custom frames to fill out the sides of your screen, and several different aspect ratios to choose from.There's some really cool design docs included in the Museum.You’ll also find the Fighting Challenges menu, which has in-game achievements you can unlock. Some of these are rote and simple, like “finish game X’s Arcade Mode.” But others are more fun and specific, such as KO’ing opponents with particular moves or collecting certain items while playing Gem Fighter. It’s a fun extra that can squeeze some more life out of every game you might not have played otherwise.And finally we have the Museum. Capcom promised over 500 pieces of art in its announcement trailer, and it has delivered on that promise. Some games have a thinner offering than others, like Street Fighter 2 only having three entries, but many have a ton of concept art, developer notes, and old pieces of fighting game history to go through. It was a true joy to thumb through all of these and live in a simpler time where you’d hang out in an arcade with friends while secondhand smoke slowly choked the life out of you.There are also full soundtracks for each of the games included, but you can’t keep them playing over the menu; they cut off as soon as you leave the track screen. It’s a bit pie-in-the-sky, but it would have been nice to keep your music of choice going while you perused the awesome museum pieces. You can stay in the top-level music menu and shuffle music from every game at once, however, so that’s a nice inclusion.Many fighting game fans rejoiced when Capcom announced that this collection includes rollback netcode, and I’m happy to say it plays great online. I’ve played matches of every game with friends and randoms across the country on both a wired gigabit connection on PC, and the PS4 version on PS5 over WiFi, and they all felt close to offline play. You can even set a small input delay in the offline modes of each game to better simulate the online experience for when you switch between the two, and getting in and out of custom lobby matches is a breeze.One early positive about the matchmaking is that you can select any game you want to queue for at the same time. This collection is already splitting the player base up to a dozen or so times; not being able to find a random match in the specific game you want to play is a very real possibility after launch, so it’s great to have that option. You can also either browse the Museum, or jump into the offline modes of any game while you’re still actively searching for an opponent. If these systems work as intended, they could do a lot to alleviate the annoyance of long queue times.And they probably will be long, unfortunately, because the Capcom Fighting Collection doesn’t include crossplay between platforms. A well-populated player base for matchmaking was already going to be difficult, so splitting that again among the various consoles and PC doesn’t bode well for the long-term pool of players. This is hopefully something that Capcom can add in later down the road, but for now it’s a huge downside for the health of the game’s player base.Thankfully, the custom lobbies are easy to use and functional. Up to nine players can join a lobby, and you can spectate matches. You must select whichever game you’re creating a lobby for, however, so you can’t hop between games after the lobby is formed – you’ll have to back out and come back in to change which game you’re playing. But at least the invite process is incredibly easy. In the Arc System Works age of getting too cute with custom lobby functions, the Capcom Fighting Collection lobbies just seem to work as intended so far.
Fire Emblem Warriors: Three Hopes Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/fire-emblem-warriors-three-hopes-review|The musou genre has seen plenty of crossovers, adding everything from giant anime mechs to superpowered pirates to the action over time. While the developers at Omega Force initially stuck very close to their winning formula, more recent crossovers with Nintendo characters have revealed a willingness to experiment. Fire Emblem Warriors: Three Hopes pushes things farther than ever, adapting everything I love about the strategy franchise outside of its turn-based gameplay for use in an action game. It makes for a robust, overstuffed game with systems, menus, and perk trees all vying for your attention. Still, nothing changes the fact that Three Hopes is a game about using a sword to propel clouds of enemies into the air in an enjoyably ridiculous 2000-hit combo, and I wouldn’t have it any other way.While Three Hopes is technically a direct sequel to 2017’s Fire Emblem Warriors, it shares much more in common with 2020’s Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity. It offers an alternate take on the story of Fire Emblem: Three Houses, starring a mercenary named Shez in place of Byleth. The old hero turns villain as Shez joins up with one of the three houses and seeks revenge. The storytelling feels just like the Fire Emblem of old, thanks to numerous fully-voiced cutscenes and other conversational opportunities. Things can get complicated when characters talk about their distant relatives and which fiefdom they plan to conquer next, but it works.All of the action runs well on the Switch OLED, with only rare instances of slowdown no matter how many soldiers, pegasi, or giant wolves are on screen. There are still a lot of enemies that pop in and out of existence as you run by, but nothing technical gets in the way of gameplay. Graphics, both in-game and in cutscenes, are very close to Fire Emblem: Three Houses, which helps make the alternative history of Three Hopes feel like just another adventure in that same world.Even outside the main missions, Three Hopes does a lot to keep things moving story-wise. Instead of living inside a menu, this game’s camp is a fully realized environment that you can walk around at will. You can talk with every character you’ve recruited, buy weapons and gifts, volunteer your army to perform chores, train and gain levels, or even cook up a meal for your comrades. It’s a whole subgame that feeds into battles via necessary upgrades to health and attack power.This is great for a little while, but walking around big, open areas just to get some errands done gets old fast. You’ll likely start warping around via a handy menu before too long, and even that drags towards the end of the campaign. Progression can be slow going considering the action game pacing everywhere else, but it’s ultimately rewarding to see favorite characters get a class upgrade or a brand-new magic spell as a result of your efforts.There was a support system in Fire Emblem Warriors, but it feels tiny compared to what’s available in Three Hopes. While not every character pairing has a cutscene when they reach certain levels of friendship, a good chunk of them do, especially regarding Shez. It stops short of marriage, but trading a unique item with Shez’s special friend will net you upgrades you can’t find anywhere else.To get to that point, Shez can take characters horseback riding beyond the camp for a sit-down conversation. These moments feel less like an intimate rendezvous and more like a pop quiz, as you’re judged based on how well you can respond to questions and comments via multiple choice. If you’re perceptive enough to guess the correct responses three times in a row, the camera zooms in a bit and lets you get a closer look at your associate while they make jokes about how you should stay respectful with your gaze. This style of interaction has been a part of Fire Emblem for a while now, but the implementation here is as awkward as it sounds, leading to an activity that likely won’t please anyone.The malleable quality of Fire Emblem’s weapons-triangle and pairing systems make them a natural fit for the hack n’ slash genre. Even when I could barely tell what was going on on the crowded battlefield and my troops were a little too codependent, I enjoyed directing the action and jumping in to be part of the carnage. And while Fire Emblem Warriors makes poor use of the Fire Emblem universe’s story and history, we still get traces of the relationships between the characters that make it memorable. - Meghan Sullivan, October 24, 2017Read the full Fire Emblem Warriors reviewBetween upgrading camp facilities and tending to friendships, Three Hopes has a level of progression that many other musou lack. There are always a few things to do between battles, and upgrades roll out at a good pace, so you’re never overwhelmed by options. It almost makes up for the inherently repetitive nature of Warriors-style combat, and it will be great to see Omega Force take what it has learned here and apply it to the Dynasty and Samurai games, which could definitely use some ways of mixing up their gameplay.Most of the new ideas in Three Hopes aren’t on the battlefield, so if you’ve played any of this style of game before you know what to expect when you embark on a new mission. Your army consists of sword masters, knights, mages, and archers, all with strengths and weaknesses dictated by Fire Emblem’s weapon wheel. Any one character with a decent level can mash through most fodder enemies and smaller generals, with only the biggest bosses posing any threat. Missions are straightforward and fun if you train your abilities right, stick to a core group of heroes, and pay attention to the ever-changing objectives.That’s not to say that nothing has changed when it comes to combat. Three Hopes pushes you toward named enemies more than ever by expanding on the stun meters found in the last Fire Emblem Warriors. Hitting stronghold leaders and other unique enemies over and over will knock them down and let you perform a super move that sweeps up fodder enemies and generally strikes a killing blow. This is in addition to the returning Awakening Mode and Warrior Specials, and the resulting gameplay is far more flashy than you’d expect. In a way, it’s similar to DOOM 2016’s Glory Kills; battles propel you in the right direction and reward you with more of the screen-clearing madness that brings people to this genre in the first place.Three Hopes has also learned to get out of its own way when it comes to combat more often than its predecessor does. Leveling up no longer pauses the action mid-fight – instead all the stat-boost screens have been pushed to the end of the level by default. AI characters can be assigned to fight specific generals on the map rather than just entire strongholds, allowing you to use their limited combat prowess effectively. You can also equip your extra characters with the best weapons and abilities at the press of a button, which is remarkable considering how many swords, axes, and spellbooks languish in your inventory over time.Getting around the battlefield has never been easier, as Shez can teleport to friendly areas up to three times per mission. The side objectives and even some complete missions account for this, giving the battlefield more variety than I expected. Switching characters at will is necessary as you rescue surrounded generals and stop mages from bombarding your positions with fireballs. No matter who you play as, you can cover a lot of ground and mop up these side objectives while still flowing towards your ultimate goal.These improvements are needed, as Three Hopes expects you to go to war quite a bit. Each primary mission has several unskippable side missions and many more optional story quests. There’s a war map where your army has to advance towards the objective by completing smaller skirmishes, and it’s here where the formula starts to buckle under its weight. You come to any musou game for the combat, but Three Hopes packs in too much filler even when you ignore everything optional, leading to some obnoxious repetition over the course of its 25-ish hours. Unless you plan on experiencing the story piecemeal over the course of one to two months, you’ll likely grow tired of doing these same battles long before the end credits roll. I recommend pacing yourself.That overlong playthrough doesn’t account for the story’s many twists and turns on your first playthrough and the differences provided by the two nations you don’t pick right off the bat. You can recruit characters from outside your chosen house in specific instances, but you won’t get the full breadth of each house’s missions unless you’re willing to run through the campaign repeatedly. Whether alone or playing with a friend in couch co-op, there’s a lot of content here. Even the improved progression can’t fully mitigate the repetition that comes hand in hand with any Warriors game, but it does a better job of it than we’ve seen in this genre to date.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder's Revenge Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/teenage-mutant-ninja-turtles-shredders-revenge-review|Growing up as a child of the 90s, whenever I stepped into an arcade, I’d always do a walk around to see what they had before putting my quarters into any machines. This usually didn’t last very long because as soon as I saw a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles cabinet, I’d shout to my friends “They got Turtles!” and we’d rush on over.It’s abundantly clear that the developers at Tribute Games share a similar love for the 90s TMNT beat-em-ups. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Shredder’s Revenge is nothing but unwaveringly reverent to the classic 1989 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Arcade game, and more prominently, 1991’s Turtles in Time. Best of all, it transforms the arcadey quarter-munching design of combat into something much more skill forward while still maintaining the same button mashy appeal. Put simply, Shredder’s Revenge is a prime example of how to breathe new life into a classic arcade beat-em-up.Shredder’s Revenge is full of all sorts of winks and nods to the arcade games that inspired it, but it smartly doesn’t chain itself to them. Arcade beat-em-ups were originally designed to suck as many quarters as they could from the pockets of players, and thus have inherited a tendency to limit your ability to get out of the way of attacks or ramp up the difficulty without also ramping up your own power. Shredder’s Revenge changes all of that, as the turtles and friends can now freely dodge roll left and right; they can hold the attack button down to charge up attacks, which also has the added bonus of letting them take damage without flinching; they each have a Shoryuken-like rising attack that makes hitting aerial enemies a breeze; and most importantly, they each have a meter that allows them to use a screen clearing super attack when it’s full.The meter fills by landing hits and resets when you take damage, but the kicker is that if you’re able to fill it up completely, the super charge is stored until you use it. This adds a nice extra incentive to play smart and be vigilant about avoiding damage, because those super moves are clutch, especially in the later stages when enemies start to get tankier and more aggressive.Aside from those additions, this is still very much the same type of game that fans of the old arcade cabinets know and love. It’s simple beat-em-up action at its finest – with a big focus on crowd clearing AOE attacks, power ups, and environmental interactables that can turn the tide of a fight in your favor.There are a total of 16 levels in Shredder's Revenge, and many of them are arranged like a remixed “Greatest Hits” of previous games. You’ve got the streets and highways of TMNT: The Arcade Game, the sewers and subways of The Manhattan Project, and the prehistoric settings of Turtles in Time. But there are also a handful of levels that are wholly original, including one that takes place at a zoo and had me contending with regular stampedes, Foot ninjas, and aggravating little monkeys in cages that threw bananas at both me and my enemies. The levels are all charming in their own right, with plenty of easter eggs and gags throughout, though I do wish there was a little more variety in the mix. There are only two types of levels: traditional stages where you just move from left to right, beating up all the baddies in your way, and high speed hoverboard stages where you move from left to right, beating up all the baddies in your way, only faster and on a hoverboard. Tribute Games plays it safe with its level design, and the result is a very even experience, but also one that started to feel quite samey by the end.Each of the levels are brought to life thanks to an impeccable soundtrack. It’s high energy, completely fits the 90s nostalgia vibe, and features a eclectic mix of remixes of familiar songs from the original games alongside entirely new songs that are equally catchy. That includes tracks from big names like Ghostface Killa and Mega Ran, a rap about the Turtles “rollin’ on broadway” in the level “Mutants Over Broadway,” and even a super cheesy rock song that feels like it’d be right at home in a Sonic Adventure game. It’s honestly one of my favorite soundtracks of the year so far.Of course, a lot of the appeal of Shredder's Revenge is playing as the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles themselves, and Tribute Games has done a wonderful job of making each character feel distinct and true to their personality while still having essentially the same set of moves. Obviously they each have their own attack animations with their own unique weapons, but it’s the little things that really go a long way. That could be the way Mikey runs like a goofball, Raph’s permanent scowl and intimidating grimace, or Donny’s amusing taunt where he pulls out a gameboy. There are some notable gameplay differences between them as well: Leo’s the only character with a flipping summersault attack out of his double jump, Michelangelo can bounce off enemies with his divekick, Raph can german suplex his opponents, and Donny can hit from a football field away thanks to the reach of his staff.The Turtles aren’t the only playable characters either. Splinter and April O’Neil also join in on the action, with Splinter using his claws, martial arts, and walking stick, and April fighting with TV cameras, microphones, and array of punches and kicks. All together, there are six characters playable right from the start, and Shredder’s Revenge even allows for up to six people to play simultaneously. I haven’t done that yet myself, but even playing with just three players is absolute chaos in the best kind of way.Tribute Games does a great job of appropriately scaling the difficulty with more players by both adding more enemies and upping their aggression with each new player that joins in. There’s also a handful of fun team up attacks that are a little difficult to coordinate, but feel great when you manage to pull them off, such as the ability for one player to dive kick into another, who can catch them and throw them like a projectile to deal big damage to anything in your path.There are only two modes of play in Shredder’s Revenge: A campaign mode that lets you select levels from an overworld, and an arcade mode that gives you that classic experience of taking on the whole game from the start with a limited number of lives and continues, with no checkpoints and no saving your progress. The whole game can be completed in about two hours, so arcade mode isn't as daunting of a task as it might initially seem, and it ultimately ended up being my preferred way to play after beating the campaign once. Those who are completionists might find themselves preferring campaign mode, however, as it features hidden collectibles, a variety of challenges to complete per level, and persistent progression per character with new stats and abilities unlocked every time you level up. Arcade mode simply gives you all these abilities from the outset.
Mario Strikers: Battle League Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/mario-strikers-battle-league-review|Look, I enjoy the realism and attention to detail of a FIFA game as much as the next person, but sometimes you just want to swallow the soccer ball, pop it out as an egg, and then bounce that egg downfield until it hatches and wizzes past the goalie. That’s just one of the incredibly silly moments that only the Mario Strikers series can provide, and Mario Strikers: Battle League is no exception. Trying to outmaneuver your friends and score a goal while engaging in a distressing amount of cartoon violence with no referee in sight had me howling with laughter one second and snarling in anger the next, and you can’t ask for much more than that. Although it’s been 15 years since Nintendo gave us the last Mario Strikers and shockingly little has been changed since then, that over-the-top mayhem and competitive intensity is a formula that holds up remarkably well.Mario's twisted version of soccer has two teams of four compete to kick, throw, headbutt, or butt-stomp a soccer ball into the rival team’s net in a highly chaotic fashion that only bears the faintest resemblance to the real-world sport that inspired it. The premise is simple to pick up and learn in a matter of seconds, but what’s impressive is how complex it can get as your skill and desire to win grows. Perfecting your power shots, learning to time your dodges, and figuring out how to best make use of on-field item pickups are all ways to make you a master out on the pitch. After a few hours of practice, it begins to feel similar to a well-tuned fighting game, where every action has a natural counter to it and each match becomes a test of your reflexes and ability to read your opponents’ intentions. That level of balance and depth is pleasantly surprising for what looks like a minigame you might find in Mario Party at first glance.A good example of that balance is in the ability to tackle enemy players to the ground at any time, immobilizing them for several seconds. That can feel pretty toxic if you’re playing against an especially rude team, and you might even be subjected to the completely awful experience of being repeatedly tackled even when the ball isn’t in your possession. But this scenario has a clever counter-measure: tackling someone who isn’t in the immediate vicinity of the ball grants that team a free item to be used immediately. So if the enemy is playing especially dirty, they’re also arming you with stuff like a bob-omb that can be lobbed back at them or an invincibility star that can give you free reign of the field for several seconds.In order to become a Battle League champion, you’ll need to learn the ins and outs of both those basic soccer techniques like passing, shooting, tackling, and handling the ball, as well as the ridiculous stuff like items and making use of your character’s special abilities and stats. While throwing a turtle shell at someone’s face brings no end of joy, the fundamentals still play a hugely important role in actually getting the ball in the net. For example, learning dodge at just the right moment grants you a short speed boost afterward, whereas getting the timing perfect when charging up your tackles or shots at the goalie makes them more effective – both of which can be extremely helpful in breaking through your opponents’ defenses.The characters you’ve chosen for your team are also an important factor in what you’ll be able to do in the heat of this fight of feet. If you’re playing as Toad, for example, you’ll be extremely fast but will also need to charge up all of your tackles if you want any hope of being able to take the ball away from someone beefy like Bowser. If you play as Donkey Kong on the other hand, you’ll be a face-slapping machine but also much slower. If a character doesn’t feel exactly the way you want them to, you can even buy gear with the coins you’ve earned from playing to augment their stats to be better in the areas you care about at the cost of being worse in others. Being able to tweak my Mario into a goalie’s worst nightmare with a maxed out Technique stat to curve my shots around them was extremely satisfying, and giving my Toad a full loadout of strength-enhancing gear so he could easily tackle some of the chunkiest enemies was enormously amusing. Plus, the gear actually changes each character visually, and dressing Rosalina up like she’s straight out of Tron just looks cool.The other major difference between characters is their Hyper Strike: a unique ultimate ability that lets you execute an absolutely ridiculous move to score points. These can be activated after picking up a floating orb that spawns on the pitch and include everything from Wario smashing the ball with his stinky butt to Rosalina literally kicking it into outer space until it comes crashing back down to the field – utter insanity. One of my favorites is Peach’s, who uses her charm to simply make the enemy fall in love with her so the goalie just voluntarily tosses the ball into his own net. Activating one of these moves requires clearing the field of enemy defenders so you can charge up your ability and play a short quicktime event to execute the move, but the risk involved is well worth it. Not only do you get to see a dope cutscene play out, but successfully pulling one off grants your team two points.This is all a lot of fun, but very little of Battle League strays far at all from what we’ve seen in the series before. Not only are all the central mechanics nearly identical to its predecessors on the Gamecube and Wii, but there are also fewer characters than in the past (just 10 total) which seems like an odd move. There’s no story mode or campaign of any kind either, and no game types aside from the standard one you play across every mode. It’s a pretty bare bones package all-in-all, even if that package is extremely replayable.The main offline mode is called Cup Battles, where you enter your team in a routine and extremely brief tournament against computer-controlled opponents with a trophy up for grabs if you can best the enemy. These tournaments are a great way to learn the ropes and build up your skills before playing with friends or in matches online, but they offer few surprises and only minor differences between each of the cups you can enter into – usually just different AI teams that use slightly tweaked strategies and items from each other. The good news is that some of the later cups offer a greatly increased difficulty for those looking for an increased challenge against the AI, but I wish there was more diversity in what each of the tournaments offer.Outside of the AI modes, it's pretty impressive that Battle League supports eight players on a single Switch, which makes it the perfect party game. It’s hard to beat the friendship-testing onslaught of dividing a room full of people against one another in a sport so immediately confrontational. That said, it’s a little disappointing that you can only play as one of the four runners on each team while the goalies are always computer-controlled, especially since those goalies are sometimes grossly incompetent and wildly inconsistent in their skill level from moment-to-moment. It would have been nice to let me assign that job to a real human I know I can trust, or can at least direct my rage at.But the biggest improvements Battle League makes over past entries is in its online multiplayer, which lets you join or manage a Strikers Club where you and your friends can compete against other clubs in a ranked playlist and claim seasonal rewards for reaching different divisions. Compared to the very limited online functionality available in the Wii-era Strikers, the leap forward in supporting a competitive landscape is a massively unexpected delight. In my pre-release time with Battle League, I only briefly got to try out this mode, but so far it seems to have a surprising amount of bells and whistles to sustain a sweaty community of tryhards, which I fully intend to count myself among. My one gripe is that you can only join online matches with two players playing locally on the same Switch, which means you can’t take a full in-person hangout online without multiple systems.
Kao the Kangaroo Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/kao-the-kangaroo-review|Kao the Kangaroo reminded me why I fell in love with 3D platformers back in the N64 days. While I missed the Dreamcast console-exclusive original back in the day, it surprised me how familiar this reboot of the 22-year-old series felt, though the revived Kao doesn’t exactly try hiding how it’s looked to other modern platformers to create a highly derivative comfort-food experience. It’s a lot of fun, colorful, and certainly rather nostalgic; just don’t come in expecting a Crash Bandicoot 4-level challenge.Stories of heroes rescuing loved ones against the odds is nothing new in this genre, so suffice it to say that Kao’s not breaking from tradition here. Dialogue could’ve been stronger, too; there’s good humor to it, but that’s sometimes weakened by outdated pop-culture references. Kao’s mom referencing “taking an arrow to the knee” is hardly topical, and the younger crowd a game like this is aimed at probably won’t recognise it. Still, there’s a pleasant cast joining our young hero like his wise teacher, Walt, whose more grounded nature keeps scenes entertaining by acting as an effective straight man for Kao.Now, this wouldn’t be much of a mascot platformer without wildly varied environments, and Kao packs four visually appealing worlds. Between the uncomfortably warm Lava Caves hiding within the sunny Hopalloo Island, Hungry Jungle’s tropical sights, and the (hopefully) self-explanatory Frozen Mountains, they’re fun to explore even if they fall into the usual tropes. Each location serves as a hub that’s filled with collectibles, though runes are the only batch you actually need to concern yourself with, since they unlock new levels.Once you begin exploring, Kao quickly finds his father’s old boxing gloves, which absurdly happen to be home to a strange and sassy entity who provides him with supernatural abilities. Alongside your standard jabs and combo strikes, Kao can build up to powerful finishers by hitting multiple enemies. These gloves also store up to three elemental charges, starting with fire before unlocking ice and electricity. They provide some nice visual flair to his finishers but, more importantly, also help him clear platforming obstacles like spider webs or freeze water to create a bridge. Otherwise, Kao’s dodge-roll also attacks enemies, making it a blessing for defensive strategy, with an understandable trade-off in that these don’t hit nearly as hard as a straight punch.Kao's packing some strong moves and the new developer, Tate, has given us plenty to do with them by providing us with decent enemy variety. We’ve got the usual grunts taking swipes at you up close, but things like goats firing sheep at you with a launcher keep this interesting. Every world’s capped off with a boss fight, each of whom provide some fresh tricks -- I won’t spoil them all, but Hopalloo Island’s boss, Terror, leaves a trail of fire behind him after attacking, while Hungry Jungle’s Jayabaya lobs projectiles from afar that Kao can punch straight back. Nothing groundbreaking, sure, but enough to avoid predictability.Between climbing across vines using his ears, grappling across floating hooks, and making temporary platforms appear once you’ve struck a purple crystal, levels carefully and effectively avoid repetition. There’s the odd bit of puzzle solving too, including one challenge where Kao must link the lines together on a crystal to make it whole, clearing your path upon completion. Another level had me running away from an enemy rolling towards Kao on a giant log, taking clear inspiration from Crash Bandicoot’s Boulder Dash. Again, nothing entirely original, but traditional ideas are sampled and remixed effectively enough.You’ll find no end of hidden secrets, so I’d recommend thorough exploration. Are there secrets behind those waterfalls? You bet! Levels hide plenty of collectibles: between extra lives, heart pieces, treasure chests packed with coins, and diamonds, there’s plenty to grab, and cash can buy new costumes from each hub world’s shop. That includes a retro look for Kao, which will likely please original fans. Every level also hides three letters spelling KAO, which can be tricky to find, and some enemies drop scrolls that unlock fresh lore for the ‘Kaopedia.’If you’re not feeling it for another platformer collectathon, fear not. Like I said before, only runes are essential for progression and nothing else is mandatory. But it does beg the question; why are some of these even here? The letters can be tricky to find, much like it was in Donkey Kong Country, so I understand there’s a sense of accomplishment in finding them. But across my entire playthrough, I couldn’t find any practical use for these collectible diamonds. That includes during the post-game, which takes you back to before the creative final fight, letting you complete things you missed.Thankfully, items aren’t the only secrets found during exploration. There are 14 mini bonus levels, known as Eternal Wells, hidden within these stages, and each requires you to complete a set challenge. That can be something simple, like defeating several waves of enemies, though more commonly it involves completing trickier platforming challenges, earning more coins, or collecting more diamonds. Each hub world contains a separate Well, so if you find one but struggle to complete it you can still go back at any time, there’s no need to dive into the main levels and find it again.That said, even after beating those wells, Kao is a quick experience that needed just nine hours to complete, taking 20 mins on average per level. If you’re not fussed about exploration or the Eternal Wells and are simply here to see this campaign through, you’d probably manage it in about seven or eight hours. In fairness, though, not many platformers are longer than that; big-name games like Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart and Super Mario Odyssey are one thing, but smaller efforts like A Hat in Time or Ary and the Secret of Seasons clock in at similar lengths. I’m just glad Kao doesn’t overstay his welcome -- it felt like the right length, and Tate’s balanced this well.The main problem was that I just didn’t find it particularly tough, and there’s no difficulty settings to crank this up to challenge me on a second playthrough. It’s not a complete cakewalk, (that dodge roll comes in handy when confronted by enemy groups), but those extra lives scattered everywhere quickly stack up. Death came infrequently, even more so once I began finding heart pieces to increase Kao’s health. I didn’t mind this so much, though. I won’t pretend this structure doesn’t feel formulaic after four worlds, yet Kao nails the basics.
Evil Dead: The Game Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/evil-dead-the-game-review|As far as the movies go, The Evil Dead series has a track record of being way better than it has any right to be, low-budget warts and all – and Evil Dead: The Game now finds itself squarely in that same boat. While it’s filled with things that irritate me, like slight inclines that my wimpy survivor was helpless to scale, finicky command prompts, and more, it also overwhelmingly succeeds at being a balanced, compelling battle of wits and reflexes that has kept my attention after more than 20 hours – and that’s no small task. Aside from the clunkiness, playing as a survivor absolutely nails the horror movie feel of working with a group to overcome an overwhelming evil threat, while playing as the menacing demon is a diabolically fun misadventure that fulfills the villainous mastermind fantasy.Yes, Evil Dead: The Game is an asymmetrical multiplayer game in the same vein of the likes of Dead by Daylight and Friday the 13th, but here it’s presented with a goofy, Bruce Campbell-smothered flair that’s every bit as weird and campy as the cult-classic movies. Mechanically, there’s not much original about it: each match, four playable survivors work as a team to avoid being maimed long enough to perform a ritual that banishes all evil from the land, all while enduring the true horror that is the map’s geometry. At the same time, one evil player does everything they can to kill the survivors using an army of undead soldiers and a bag of dastardly tricks so wickedly satisfying it’s hard to feel bad for the poor souls succumbing to your terrible power. That game of cat and mouse is an absolute blast no matter what side you’re on, even when its rough edges make me scream louder than any jump scare.It is somewhat distinct from its genre peers in that the humans are capable of defending themselves. Playing as a survivor feels like a familiar, squad-based, third-person shooter that borrows a lot from the battle royale style in which you’re running around as a squad looking for loot and killing enemies as you steadily power up. Only here, your goal isn’t just survival, but completing objectives like finding map pieces and defending areas to claim relics needed in the purification ritual. With plenty of melee and ranged weapons to find and 13 characters to choose from, each with their own unique abilities and skill trees to be leveled up, its progression system got its hooks into me early with all the different ways things can play out. For example, the Hunter class characters excel at using ranged weapons and have abilities that make them a major thorn in the side of the demon player, like one particularly awesome character that can exorcise the demon from bodies they’ve possessed. Alternatively, you might want to play as a Leader class character like the hilarious Lord Arthur, an old-timey knight who swings a sword around and can buff the team with effects that make them more lethal in combat.The worst part about playing as a survivor, though, is that you’re far more prone to experience some of Evil Dead’s signature clunkiness when moving around the map. There’s no jump button to be found and environments are often uneven, meaning you’ll find yourself stuck on a tiny rock or other minor obstruction all the time – including the worst possible times, such as when a demon is trying to rip your face off. Sometimes a prompt will allow you to climb over small obstacles, but more often than not you’ll have to walk all the way around even something as trivial as a low hedge wall. The demon, meanwhile, can fly over all of that, making the glitches as asymmetrical as the gameplay design.Aside from being locked in a life-or-death battle with small pebbles, you’ll also struggle with the lack of a lock-on system when fighting undead mobs, finicky interaction prompts to do things like light a campfire or revive a fallen teammate that often doesn’t register during crucial moments, your character getting frozen in place for several seconds for no foreseeable reason, and more. Probably my biggest pet peeve though, is the really obnoxious safe zone system, which restricts your squad to an increasingly confined area as the end of the match approaches. If you’ve played a battle royale game before you’ll be familiar with the concept, but Evil Dead implements it in the worst possible way by making the safe zone changes unpredictable, almost instantly lethal if you’re caught outside the boundaries, and incredibly inconsistent. I’ve had entire matches mucked up as my team completed an objective, only for the safe zone to jump over to another part of the map a few seconds later, catching half the team in an unavoidable death zone and ending any hope of claiming victory. That’s just downright frustrating.Luckily, the experience as one of the three playable demons has fewer sticking points, mostly because you play as a floating orb of evil that can quickly hover across the map and mess with the survivors with godlike powers, and that’s an objective that never stops being amusing. That’s due in large part to how many ways Evil Dead lets you accomplish that devious goal: you can summon hordes of computer-controlled enemies for the survivors to fight, set traps that spawn enemies and increase their fear when sprung, or even possess undead characters to control them directly, making them even stronger and more difficult to deal with.Not only that, but by scaring the human team using traps or demonic abilities, and by separating them from one another, you gain the ability to possess the survivors themselves for a limited time, turning them against their own allies, which can be absolutely devastating. Another amusing way to win is by simply wasting the survivors’ time by doing things like possessing the car they’re driving and steering it off a cliff so they have to spend valuable time wandering around on foot, or by possessing a tree and swatting humans in the face while they’re trying to rest at a campfire. All the while you’re leveling up and gaining stronger and stronger demonic abilities until only the most resolute and skillful players have any hope of defeating you, and it just feels so delightfully evil. I usually prefer to be on the survivors’ side in this style of game rather than face their united attempts to kill me as the monster, but Evil Dead captured my heart almost instantly – it’s easily the best monster mode I’ve seen.Of course, once you’ve gotten a handle on both the survivor and demon modes, there isn’t a ton left to do aside from grinding for XP and leveling up your characters. And although I easily lost myself in over 25 hours of matches, the package does feel a bit light on content in some regards, especially where maps are concerned. There are only two, and although they’re both fairly large and each has a few interesting areas, after a dozen or so matches I started to see a lot of the same places over and over, and that increasingly wore down Evil Dead’s novelty the longer I played. I mean, you can only hang out at a derelict doll factory so many times before you start feeling like you’ve seen all a derelict doll factory has to offer and wish you could visit some other types of failed businesses, ya know?Evil Dead: The Game also offers some single-player missions, which are required to unlock some of the best characters, including Pablo from Ash vs. The Evil Dead or the legendary King Arthur himself, but unfortunately these missions are without a doubt the worst part of the package. While they try to serve as palette cleansers to the multiplayer-centric experience, they end up being tedious slogs through the same map areas found in multiplayer where you complete a few fetch quests, fight a couple enemies, and receive snippets of story through still images that pop up to interrupt your playtime. Not only are they completely uninspired, but they also don’t have checkpoints – so you can die and lose 20 minutes of progress and have to do it all over again.And because you’re playing alone as a survivor in a mode that feels like it was tacked on, the issues with polish are amplified exponentially, including the aforementioned horrible safe zones feature which ruined multiple runs by relocating safety zones to different parts of the map with no warning and instantly killed me. They even have the audacity to try stealth mechanics in one of the missions, which went about as well as you’d expect, and made me wonder if the unlockable characters were worth the torment. The good news is that there are only five missions and once you finish them you never have to do them again, but getting through them all is a pretty painful experience.
Vampire: The Masquerade – Swansong Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/vampire-the-masquerade-swansong-review|Imagine compacting the gothic open world of 2004’s Vampire: The Masquerade – Bloodlines into an RPG that is far slower and more deliberate in its execution, dousing it with the same variety of linear, character-driven storytelling made popular in Telltale’s The Walking Dead series, then finally handing it off to receive one last blood injection from the legendary puzzle game Myst. That’s the pedigree that Vampire: The Masquerade – Swansong tries to live up to, but it struggles to piece its own identity as a detective RPG together until the very end. It’s rich with decisions that should feel meaningful in theory, but its emotional moments exist in service to a broader story with no clue what to do with them. Meanwhile, its many obtuse puzzles are often too clumsily explained. With all of that working against it, you’d be mortally forgiven for walking out of Swansong’s dark, hazy alcove before its final embrace.Things kick off as you step into a fancy pair of vampire shoes and head on down to the Camarilla, an upscale vampire court seated in the heart of Boston. It’s always a treat when you get to play the clear villain of a story... but that sadly isn’t the case here. Instead, Swansong quickly positions you as the downtrodden, misunderstood hero of its grimdark underworld. Its villains are a generic group of heavily armed religious fanatics in police uniforms that unironically label themselves the “Second Inquisition.” And if that wasn’t enough to make your eyes roll, it’s headed by Stanford, a guy whose monologues are so predictable and one-sided that he fails to be seen as anything other than a cheesy cartoon villain. In virtually every scene he shows up in, he spouts some euphemism about ending the vampire reign forever, and then he begins speaking Latin until he gets dramatically ferried off-screen. Hold on, I thought the whole titular Masquerade was about hiding the existence of vampires from the public for this exact reason? If he were a better villain, he’d tweet about them.If you don’t already have an emotional investment in Vampire: The Masquerade’s world, Swansong does very little to pull you in. From the first scene, you’re barraged with jargon-rich dialogue spoken between characters who already know what’s going on – and who already have a history with one another – but don’t know you. None of the three playable characters – Leysha, Emem, or Galeb – really felt like an “in” for me, though I did enjoy Galeb’s general badassery. He’s the Camarilla’s point man (if you’re familiar with Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodhunt, Galeb is the equivalent to that game’s Ventrue Enforcer class). Still, he isn’t all that relatable, and for a good chunk of time, most of the conversations feel like walking into a party where everyone talks to each other but no one talks to you. All three characters have their own unique backstory related to where they sit on the Camarilla’s hierarchy, and at least they’re each decently voice-acted, but it’s still jarring to be dropped directly into each of their stories at full speed ahead without establishing the stakes of the vampire world that are so quickly threatened by the Second Inquisition.As a result, any emotional connection to be had with the cast of vampires only begins to form in the last quarter of Swansong’s 20-hour story – well after you’ve already made most of the decisions that would determine each character’s fate. Worldbuilding is certainly helped along by the lore-rich codex, if you take the time to read it, but even after spending significant time gaining an understanding of the vampire underworld the first few legs of the story are still rather uninspired and uninteresting until you’ve had sufficient time to shape it around your choices.There’s no shortage of supernatural violence in Vampire: The Masquerade – Swansong, but not in the way you’d normally expect for an RPG. There’s no combat here whatsoever, just cutscenes where combat takes place in scripted displays of vampiric fighting prowess. This isn’t a death knell by any means, since the best RPGs can get by without the need for constant action. Unfortunately, this is far from the best.Despite the lack of fighting, you still need to sate your character’s bestial thirst – more specifically, you need to maintain their Discipline bar, which is like a mana bar that powers vampire abilities. To do this you have to periodically sneak one of several designated humans into private spaces and suck as much blood as you can without killing them, which is yawn-inducingly simple to do. If you do end up killing a mortal by deliberately drinking from them two times, the Suspicion gauge shared by each of your three characters goes up, which can gradually incur skill penalties until you bring it back down again by collecting loose pieces of intel that your NPC vampire comrades seem to have a knack for leaving around everywhere.It’s almost always worth feeding on each human at least once to replenish your Discipline, since that’s what grants the ability to dominate tense conversations, reveal hidden objects, or even teleport to distant hidden locations, depending on who you’re playing as. Likewise, as your Discipline pool goes down, your Hunger goes up, gradually making you less capable during tense encounters.Aside from the times you do get to use your vampire powers, most of your time in Swansong is spent doing the same mundane things that any regular human could’ve done. You begin each mission with a limited pool of Willpower points to spend hacking computers, picking locks, and displaying your flair for rhetoric while discussing the finer points of human blood. This would be fine enough if the skill point system were less punishing, but an unbalanced and unclear skill check system dominates dialogue and confrontations. For instance, in certain cases a critical conversation can still result in failure even after you’ve spent enough precious Willpower points that they display as having 100% chance of success in the menu. That’s not what 100% means!Fail states don’t boot you to a game over screen, but they can cost you experience points that you would have been able to allocate in the following mission. They also tend to change the direction of the overarching story, supposedly making later encounters more challenging. And because Willpower-restoring items are so few and far between, Swansong can easily slow to a halt if you fail enough interactions, which can happen if you choose to allocate your experience points to the wrong skills before each level. That’s a big problem, since you can’t change or re-specialize your skills once you find yourself stuck in front of a locked skill check unless you’re willing to restart the level from scratch. Making matters worse, Swansong’s maps are so inconsistently designed that it’s functionally impossible to know which skills will or won’t be useful before you start. It’s a crap shoot.It’s good that there’s always at least one solution to move the story forward that’s available to all characters on each map, but the most basic possible solution usually involves solving a puzzle, which might be more trouble than it’s worth. Despite charming my feet off for the first several levels, especially in the Jefferson Library and in Jason Moore’s apartment, the puzzle-solving detective work that seemed so appealing at first glance quickly lost its luster once I realized that the story itself wasn’t ultimately interesting enough to compel me forward. Many of these riddles, which required several layers of deductive reasoning to solve, didn’t fit in that well with the themes of the story itself and thus felt like padding rather than interesting contextual challenges. That meant that when a puzzle had especially inconspicuous clues, unrelated to anything the characters had been talking about, the solutions could feel out of left field even if they weren’t entirely illogical. Many of them give you little to work from and often forced me to run around in circles before I finally managed to piece them together. They’re not inherently bad, but it simply doesn’t gel with the pace of the storytelling.At least each of these reasonably spacious albeit contained environments look exceptionally good when played on Max settings. Lighting and fog effects look especially sleek and the art direction is generally punchy, giving a distinct identity to each location. The Camarilla itself is especially cool to explore, layered with contrasting black marble and sharp red hues that evoke a sense of being in an otherworldly but classy space.You might get too used to staring at some of Swansong’s decorations for a longer time than you’d have hoped, though. As I said earlier, its puzzles require a high level of deductive reasoning, which is just fine, but a few of them do get a little too esoteric for their own good. For instance, one puzzle requires you to pay very close attention to the direction a certain mythical king is pointing his arms, but you won’t know that without doing some serious guesswork – especially since the same clues are placed immediately next to a completely different puzzle. One of the later puzzles requires you to trace your character’s missing daughter through a military complex, but you’ll need to translate a single piece of well-hidden information through several layers of logical deduction – finding a code on a printed sheet, figuring out what that’s supposed to open, finding another code, and so forth – before you can find the final solution and move forward once and for all.This type of puzzle solving can work in the right circumstances, but here it’s in conflict with the already dreadfully slow pacing set by Swansong’s slow-burn story. I love to compare its style of storytelling to Disco Elysium, which arguably worked so well because you got to explore the protagonist’s inner monologue as he himself stumbled through the problem-solving process. However, such a level of self-awareness just doesn’t exist in Vampire: The Masquerade – Swansong. Likewise, it often assumes you’re paying close attention to its long stretches of mind-numbingly dull dialogue. This is where Swansong often hides clues in plain sight, but since I generally didn’t know what to look for until I was already in front of a given puzzle, these long dialogue scenes (which were unskippable) ended up feeling more like a ploy to pad out Swansong’s length than anything else.
Eiyuden Chronicle: Rising Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/eiyuden-chronicle-rising-review|I’ve never seen a small spin-off game meet my expectations this comprehensively before. Fun, short-lived, slightly repetitive, yet leaving me interested to know more, Eiyuden Chronicle: Rising was exactly how I pictured it. Releasing a companion game before the main game – in this case the upcoming Eiyuden Chronicle: Hundred Heroes, is certainly an unusual choice, especially given that Rising takes a very different approach to its JRPG sibling by swapping turn-based battles for a 2D action-RPG format. Make no mistake though, it’s worth playing for its own strengths.Our goal in Rising is to rebuild New Neveah, a town decimated by an earthquake several months ago. That same event also unearthed several ruins stacked with treasure, which is where we come in. Playing as an honourable scavenger, CJ, our role in the reconstruction is providing each resident with whichever materials they’ve requested, ranging from basic ores and lumber to more specialized items later on. Just be aware this isn’t a city-building sim like Cities: Skylines – here, every building location is predetermined and there’s no finer tinkering, so don’t expect anything too in-depth. You can’t freely interact with the average NPC either, so New Neveah’s not always the most exciting place to be. Still, there’s an undeniable charm this small town presents as it grows, and while this isn’t the most inventive premise, there’s an unfolding mystery within that held my attention.Progress is mapped through a stamp card system, earning another every time you help residents. Filling out your stamp book upgrades it to the next level, bringing more people to town and further opportunities, and you can exchange stamps at the trading post for more exciting items later on. You’ll need a few initially to obtain an explorer’s license for the ruins, so it’s slightly odd seeing CJ get so invested in collecting stamps once you’ve done that, but seeing her so dedicated to rebuilding this town is rather sweet.Rising adopts a metroidvania approach to exploration, blocking off certain areas until you’ve found a set ability. For example, CJ’s double jump isn’t available until you’ve improved her armor, the justification being that it’s become lighter and less restrictive, letting her reach certain platforms. It’s a steady system that rewards the more thorough explorers but doesn’t restrict your ability to obtain resources. Naturally, these areas are also teeming with your bog-standard monsters and a few bosses to cap them off, and CJ’s soon joined by two other party members: the young acting mayor, Isha, whose struggle to keep this town afloat after her father’s disappearance held my interest. There’s also Garoo, an anthropomorphic kangaroo mercenary that claims he’s just in it for the money, but made me laugh at how frequently he caves to CJ’s demands.You can swap between party members easily during exploration, as all three are mapped to a set face button, which also activates their attack. There’s decent variety here: Garoo is your slow but heavy hitter whose greatsword is well suited to destroying enemy shields, Isha uses magic for ranged attacks and overcoming foes’ magical barriers, and CJ offers a nice middle ground with her two pickaxes, so you’ll need to frequently rotate between them. Eventually, equippable rune-lenses become available that give your team weapon elemental damage. That adds some strategy to fights as some enemies might be weak to fire damage, yet resistance against lightning, though it doesn’t make a huge difference. Thanks to elemental stones blocking your path, hitting them with the matching rune-lense opens up new areas in exploration, too.Initially, you can’t do much beyond single-button attacks, leaving combat feeling rather basic. New abilities are only unlocked upon improving weapons and armor and, unlike other RPGs, you don’t need to keep selling your legendary weapons to random shopkeepers once you’ve got a better one because they’re all upgraded through gradual improvements, assuming you’ve got the money and materials; given how many protagonists Hundred Heroes is promising, I’d call this a wise approach to limit the burden of micromanagement. I just wish Rising didn’t lock simple moves like attacking upwards or downward spikes behind these upgrades – it’s a strange choice that makes the early hours feel too straightforward. I’d never expect a small-scale spin-off game to do anything revolutionary with its progression system but I would’ve liked a little more depth.Combat isn’t just simplistic; on default difficulty it’s a cakewalk. Clearing out these ruins wasn’t especially challenging and if you’re after a tougher fight, hard mode is unfortunately locked until you’ve beaten the 12-hour campaign for the first time. Fortunately, combat does open up later on once you acquire these new moves and rune-lenses, leaving some room to strategize. Pulling off combos also felt pretty damn satisfying, a feeling amplified by the slow-motion sequence that activates alongside it, slowly showing your team tearing into the opposition. There’s a rush that comes from rinsing tougher foes with a quick set of strikes, inflicting major damage in a matter of a few seconds. It’s one area where the basic nature of combat is advantageous, in that your party works in unison without any complicated inputs. These can be pulled off manually or activated automatically through ‘Simple Mode,’ but keep in mind that’s not a difficulty setting – it’s purely for controls.It doesn’t take much combat, resource gathering, and questing for New Neveah to become a thriving town once more, offering all the classic buildings you’d expect from a fantasy RPG. Inns, taverns, blacksmith services, all the usual sights are here. Smaller shops like the apothecary are relegated to being unlocked through side missions, found on a notice board in New Neveah’s Plaza, and thankfully these don’t need long to complete.Quests don’t usually ask for more than providing each resident the requested materials, but I felt a sense of pride in rebuilding New Neveah. The results are immediately evident, and turning this town from a ruined mess to a thriving hub felt rewarding. That sentiment is nicely reflected in CJ’s own personal growth, seeing her go from ambitious treasure hunter to someone who’d do anything for its citizens. New Neveah’s growth is boosted by a lovely art direction and Rising’s packed with vibrant environments that I could watch all day. Whether it’s those beautiful trees of the Great Forest or the icy tundra known as Snowpeak, NatsumeAtari’s given clear attention to detail here and that’s a key part of its charm.Unfortunately, and not at all surprisingly, this mission structure quickly becomes repetitive, though the worst offenders are found in the side missions. Main quests are significantly varied but if you plan on going that extra mile for this town, almost everything is a fetch quest for material gathering. This certainly makes sense from a story perspective – you can’t exactly do much construction work when there’s no resources to work with, after all. But even with fast travel, continuously travelling between these ruins got tedious. I counted three occasions that required me finding the exact same ore, so I had to keep exploring those same locations. Fortunately, the trading post often provides what’s required, it’s just not always cheap.While I understand these are optional, ignoring these quests can lock out some important upgrades to your weapons and armour with their respective attack and defence boosts, placing you at a significant disadvantage in combat later on. But the biggest facilities you’ll need are locked into main story missions, and if you’re taking a moment to whack every rock, tree, and enemy you come across during exploration you may already have the needed resources on you when taking on a request. Granted, there’s a limit to what you can carry, but storage space can also be increased to a generous degree.Still, despite sweeping through everything before the final boss, Rising only took me 12 hours to complete. That relatively low (for a JRPG) number of hours isn’t that surprising for a companion game, and you can bump that up to 15 hours when including post-game content, which adds more side quests for completing your stamp book. It’s not the longest adventure but crucially, this main story never felt dragged out, everything progressed at a natural rate. Because the party’s story continues in Hundred Heroes - CJ, Garoo, Isha, and four other Rising characters all appear as protagonists - expect a few loose threads to be left when the story wraps up, but I still found a satisfying conclusion.
The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/the-stanley-parable-ultra-deluxe-review|Plenty has already been said about why 2013’s The Stanley Parable is so phenomenal – so much, in fact, that one section of 2022’s The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe is a literal shrine to all of the praise and accolades that have been deservedly heaped upon it. To prattle on further about how it cleverly messes with your own video game expectations or how it dissects the choices games often give us would only belabor long-since made points (not to mention risk my own words showing up in the inevitable 2031 re-rerelease). But then again, there I go doing exactly that, because despite those points having already been well made both about and by The Stanley Parable, they still ring as true as ever – and Ultra Deluxe’s new content proves it has plenty more worth saying, at a scale that goes far beyond a simple remaster.Before we get too deep, a quick spoiler warning: The Stanley Parable is a hard game to talk about because so much of its charm and delight comes from discovering its surprises for yourself. I am going to do my best not to ruin that experience while I tell you why it’s one worth having, but I will be talking about some of what already made the base game stand out, as well as the general scope and structure of how Ultra Deluxe builds upon it. So while I’ll avoid ruining the specifics of any jokes or endings, my real recommendation is that you should stop reading here, play it totally fresh, and then come back and see how your own thoughts compare to mine. But if you need a little more to go on before making that leap, read on."Sometimes The Stanley Parable feels like an exploration of the peculiar madness of boredom. Other times it’s something else entirely: a joke at the player’s expense, a commentary on choice and consequence, a parody, a bureaucratic nightmare. All its different plotlines and personalities overlap and combine to create something that’s intriguingly opaque, but always entertaining, and genuinely funny. Whatever it is, it’s worth playing." - Keza MacDonald, October 18, 2013Read the full The Stanley Parable review.The Stanley Parable is a surreal adventure game at its heart. You play Stanley, wandering the halls of his office as a narrator (brilliantly voiced by Kevan Brighting) instructs you on where to go. Of course, the now thoroughly interrogated gag here is that you don’t have to listen to him at all. The office is a labyrinth of paths to choose from or stumble upon, each choice sending you further down its branching tree of hilarious stories and toward one of its countless endings. Every journey is full of jokes that had me genuinely laughing out loud (even years after the first time I saw them) framed within a constantly winking satire of the way games are traditionally supposed to behave – be that mundane things like getting to ignore the “correct” path, or more elaborate examples like a reset not always setting the metaphorical sliders back to zero.The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe may bill itself as a long-awaited console port with some nicely improved lighting and a bit of new content, but that last part is, shall we say, severely understated. When you first start it up, Ultra Deluxe asks if you’ve played the original before, and developer Crows Crows Crows stressed to me that it’s important to answer this question honestly. Ultra Deluxe contains the entirety of The Stanley Parable, and if you haven’t played that then it’s one of the easiest recommendations I’ll ever make – but if you have, this rerelease offers far more than a literal trip into The Memory Zone.Given how many secret paths and hidden endings The Stanley Parable contains, it’s hard to tell exactly how big the new content in Ultra Deluxe really is, but I feel confident saying it’s comparable to the original with four to six hours of stuff to see at the very least. There is essentially an entirely new game to play through here, and the idea that it’s being presented as anything less is probably one of its best gags. Some of Ultra Deluxe’s content takes place in brand-new areas that pretty much feel like a straight up sequel, while other additions play out as remixed or altered versions of Stanley’s usual paths through the office. (I don’t know for sure, but I assume the question about whether you’ve played before determines how early this new content will pop up, as things start off entirely unassuming.)While The Stanley Parable pokes fun at games as a whole, it seems only right that Ultra Deluxe shifts its gaze toward the concept of sequels, expansions, and DLC – as well as some pointed self reflection about both the original game and its wider reception. I don’t want to get into the specifics, but the new writing is no less clever, insightful, or funny than the old, and the way it all meshes together is a pretty brilliant take on an extremely difficult task. Framing everything this way, as new content for an existing game rather than the standalone thing it likely could have been if Crows Crows Crows really wanted to, allows Ultra Deluxe to make many points about the relationship between modern games and their updates more effectively, which was a real treat.At the same time, Ultra Deluxe’s new stuff didn’t always land quite as well for me. It’s all extremely entertaining, but one of the drawbacks of housing this pseudo-sequel within the original is the feeling that we’ve seen many of these magic tricks before. It’s not that they don’t hold up or aren’t still impressive, and it’s not that there aren’t plenty of new ones which delighted me all their own – but even if the well hasn’t run dry, it’s hard to shake the feeling that we are ultimately revisiting it (something Ultra Deluxe even enjoyably teases itself for). Because of that, some of the new and remixed paths alike initially felt like slightly more passive experiences than the base game’s – but upon reflection I’m not sure if that’s actually true or if their impact was just blunted slightly by the fact that I better knew what to expect nine years later.
Nintendo Switch Sports Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/nintendo-switch-sports-review|Remember when everyone and their grandma was caught up in the Wii Sports craze more than 15 years ago? Nintendo Switch Sports tries to recapture that lightning-in-a-bottle moment with a tighter but all too familiar experience, refining the same concept of simple, family-friendly motion-controlled games and applying it to new and old sports alike. Just like Wii Sports before it, Nintendo Switch Sports is best played as a fun but shallow party game that you can break out for friends and family in a pinch, though this time it’s not quite the novelty it was back in 2006.You can play any of Switch Sports’ six games (volleyball, badminton, bowling, soccer, chambara/sword fighting, and tennis) alone or with friends, both locally and online. They’re all generally high quality, but pale in comparison to Wii Sports Resort’s 12 (admittedly less consistent) games when taken as a full package. My first day I spent time playing each sport alone to get a feel for them, and while putting spin on a backhand return in tennis to the tune of its excellent music tracks gave me a dose of nostalgia, it wasn’t until I decided to play a few rounds with my parents that the magic of Wii Sports came back in force. There’s fun to be had in playing a quick tennis match against some NPCs or bowling a few frames alone, but Switch Sports is undeniably at its best when you’re playing in the same room with other people, waving your arms and legs around like maniacs.Although I stood relatively still when playing a match of badminton against my mom, making the bare-minimum motions with the Joy-Con necessary to trigger on-screen movements, my mom would lunge across the room to return a shot, throw her shoulder into each smash, and ultimately ended up winded because she wasn’t playing Switch Sports like a video game: she was playing it like the real thing. Similarly, when bowling, both my parents tended to walk up to the screen every time they threw the ball because the simplicity of it made those movements feel all the more natural to them – like they were bowling a round in real life. The special sauce that Wii Sports always had to bring in frequent gamers and the uninitiated alike is absolutely still here, and it’s the simplicity of the motion controls that makes it work.But to really test out Switch Sports in its natural environment, you need a party. So I got together with a group of 12 friends and let them have at it. Beyond some of the routine headaches with connecting all the Joy-Con correctly, getting my friends up and at it was a breeze. Every single game in the collection is immediately more fun in this setting – chambara becomes a series of wild flails while onlookers cheer on, badminton emerges as an intense back and forth with neither player willing to accept defeat, and soccer turns into a mad sprint to the ball to try and get some last-second diving headers in before the clock hits zero.Some of the individual games fare better than others when it comes to the intuitiveness of the controls – specifically, volleyball is the most difficult sport to simply pick up and play. During any given match you’ll be automatically shuffled through all the different positions, from server to setter to blocker. Your success is almost entirely based on cooperation with your teammate, because well-timed sets, jumps, and spikes compound into stronger, harder-to-return shots. Once everyone gets the hang of these motions it’s a lot of fun and made us feel like we were working as a team, but getting to that point wasn’t nearly as instinctive as the other games.Badminton is easily my favorite sport of the bunch. It offers the most control, rewarding underhand returns, smashes, birdie placement, and more fine-tuned executions. You can even hold the trigger to initiate a drop shot, forcing your opponent to rush the net so you can then satisfyingly smash the birdie to the opposite corner of the court. It’s limited to two players at a time, but the often-heated returns feel much more intense for it. Badminton is also the only sport in the collection that made me notice the Joy-Con’s HD Rumble – precise haptic feedback that I could feel in my hand whenever the racquet connected with the birdie to make a satisfying *ting* sensation.Bowling also gives you a high degree of control over the ball, and I was quickly bowling 150-point games without breaking a sweat. But the real challenge is in the Special mode, which throws increasingly difficult obstacles in the path of your strike and will give even the best Wii bowlers a run for their money. It also gives you and up to three friends the option to play simultaneously, so everyone doesn’t have to sit around and wait for each person to finish a frame – the result is chaotic and fittingly fun. Unfortunately, the 100-pin bowling mode from Wii Sports Resort is nowhere to be found.Soccer is the most disappointing: it plays like a slower, less flashy version of Rocket League. The ball is larger than the players, and you spend most of the time in a match slowly running across the field. 1-on-1 was generally more enjoyable simply by virtue of the field being smaller, while 4-on-4 takes forever with the ball constantly trading possession. Soccer also bafflingly only allows for up to two human players at a time, preventing it from being redeemed as a fun party game.The physical edition of Nintendo Switch Sports comes packed with a leg strap, the same one included with Ring Fit Adventure. Because of that addition it costs $50, whereas the digital version only runs you $40 if you go without – frankly, as things stand, I recommend that you buy digital. The only use for the leg strap currently in Switch Sports is a shallow soccer shootout game that feels more like a hamfisted gimmick than anything else. Though Nintendo says it will update Switch Sports this summer to allow you to use the leg strap in the full soccer game, its effectiveness in this limited mode makes me doubt that it would be worth the higher price in the end.Chambara’s sword fighting produces the most intense bouts of the lineup. Both fighters enter a sort of stilted dance, where one blocks while the other attempts to pull off parallel slashes to cut through their defenses. If you’ve chosen to use the Charge Sword, more successful blocks result in a powerful and satisfying return strike, while Twin Sword wielders can swing their weapons in unison to execute a Zelda-like spin attack that makes their generally more awkward handling worth it. Though the motion controls don’t always feel perfectly accurate, the matches can result in memorable come-from-behind moments where you go from being on the defensive to moving in for the “kill,” so to speak. The loser just comically falls into a pool of water – this is Nintendo, after all.Switch Sports’ version of tennis is almost exactly like it was in Wii Sports, and you can only play doubles (with other players or against NPCs), which differentiates it from the 1v1 matches of badminton. It feels far more timing-oriented than badminton too, but it does give you the ability to slice and lob based on how you hit the ball. Those differences make it better for bigger parties, but it feels shallow by comparison.Switch Sports includes online play, which allows you to unlock additional cosmetic options for your characters, but we weren’t able to test it out during our review period. However, I primarily consider Switch Sports to be an in-person party game, and could not care less about how my character looks, so even if online play doesn’t work at all for some reason, I wouldn’t be terribly broken up about it – the lack of depth to these games means that if I’m not playing it in a living room with friends, I might as well be playing against an NPC.It’s unlikely to take you more than an hour or two with some friends to play through everything Switch Sports has to offer. While simplicity is what makes it work so well as a party starter, its selection of six sports feels meager in comparison to Wii Sports Resort’s 12 games. The lack of golf at launch is also sorely missed, but it’s an exciting prospect to hit the links again when the DLC is released this fall.
MLB The Show 22 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/mlb-the-show-22-review|There’s a limit to how much development can happen on a game in a single year, and MLB The Show 22 is the perfect example of what hitting that wall can look like. This year’s entry into Sony San Diego’s annualized baseball series plays as well as ever and looks great, but the confines imposed by its rigid release schedule are also more apparent than ever. A new cooperative mode is a welcome addition and an already solid stadium builder has been expanded upon nicely, but technical issues are more persistent than previous editions too. MLB The Show 22 is still a really good baseball game – it’s just beginning to show signs that it may be time to call in a reliever.The lifelike recreation of Major League broadcasts in MLB The Show 22 is just as impressive as last year. There’s a cinematic quality to the way player-controlled action is framed, with intros, outros, overlay graphics, and the deep pool of stats that baseball fans expect. The lovingly detailed recreations of real world ballparks look great in 4K too. The lighting is particularly stunning; real baseball games play out over multiple hours, and the in-game transition from sunset to a stadium fully illuminated against the night sky is marvelous. Suncast shadows in the afternoon give way to 360-degree illumination when the sun falls, and it’s easy to forget what you see on screen is still just 1’s and 0’s on a hard drive.There is an all new broadcast crew bringing their voices to the series this year: Jon "Boog" Sciambi & Chris Singleton have replaced the Matt Vasgersian-lead team as the in-game announcers. The performances are generally convincing, and new voices are refreshing after many years of the same crew. However, the number of unique lines of dialogue is noticeably lower than before, and lines repeat with greater frequency than before. There are only so many times I could hear the same bad joke about how the ball is “just not carrying to first” before I wanted to mute the announcers entirely. It also leads to some baffling holes in the dialogue, like when Ken Griffey Jr., who appears with spoken lines in the Road to the Show campaign, is only referred to as “Number 24” when you play with him in games.The strength of MLB The Show is traditionally in its versatility, and that’s no different here. Controls can be simple, with automatic baserunning, one button pitches, and easy hitting – or they can be complex, with multi-part thumbstick movements for pitching, and precision hitting. The former is easier to execute, but the latter will yield better results if done well, incentivising and rewarding you for trying to grow your skills without gating out those who want to have a more relaxed involvement.Likewise, Franchise Mode can be played in painstaking detail, with minor league call-ups, drafting, scouting, and micromanaging of budgets, or that can all be set to auto while you focus on playing in the games themselves. You’re given multiple ways to right whatever historical wrongs have kept your favorite team from winning a championship and becoming a perennial powerhouse. It’s a feat of design to be able to cater to users from the casual to the hardcore, yet MLB The Show continues to set the standard for accommodating diverse tastes.That said, while Major League Baseball is nearly 150 years old, The Show is still trailing behind this ancient sports institution in a few key areas. New rules extending the Designated Hitter throughout the entire league are going into effect as of the 2022 season, yet they aren’t reflected here. This is especially disappointing as it relates to two-way players, including The Show 22’s cover athlete Shohei Ohtani, who is a revelation as both an elite pitcher and hitter. In real-world baseball this rule change allows him to function as both a designated hitter and starting pitcher, enabling him to be relieved as a pitcher while remaining in the game as a batter. Sadly, MLB The Show lacks the capacity to make the same allowance. It’s the sort of issue one would hope can be resolved in an update, but as of release is a swing and a miss.Online co-op is one of the key new editions in 2022, allowing you to form teams for 2v2 or 3v3 competition across platforms either with friends or through random matchmaking. Players on each team alternate batters while at the plate and rotate between pitching and fielding each inning, and being able to focus single-mindedly on one defensive task is liberating. While one person plays cat and mouse with pitch selection, the other can focus on where to go for force outs and make strategic choices around the diamond. There’s joyous excitement to stepping up the plate with a friend on base, knowing they are depending on you to make the hit that brings them in for a key run.However, there are some limitations to co-op too. You can play in random games or in a limited Diamond Dynasty playlist, but there are no persistent teams or co-op leagues. You can’t choose your opponents either, so the only way to play against friends is luck in matchmaking. Rotating defensive roles is also mandatory, forcing you to switch back and forth even if one player only wants to pitch while the other only wants to field. I played one game with a random teammate who was a really solid hitter and defender, but their struggles on the mound doomed us as our opponents drove in multiple runs every other inning. In its current iteration, co-op feels more like a fun proof-of-concept rather than a fully fleshed-out mode fit for online competition.Co-op games frequently failed to connect me with cross-platform friends when we tried to play together as well, and all sorts of technical issues were unfortunately common in my time with The Show 22. Players would sometimes walk to the dugout frozen in strange poses, tutorials that I had disabled in settings would still appear, I had to restart multiple times after freezes, and online matches of any sort were prone to random disconnects. The stability I’ve generally come to expect from The Show has taken a noticeable hit, which is definitely a shame.The Diamond Dynasty mode will be familiar to series veterans, allowing you to assemble teams made up of players from throughout baseball history, collected via randomized card packs, and face other player-assembled squads. The concept is well established in sports games, but the execution in The Show has been, and remains, excellent. Programs return as the battle pass stand-in: you accumulate XP by playing any of The Show’s different modes, unlocking rewards as you progress up levels. Stubbs are your primary currency for purchasing packs, which you can once again buy with real money, but you also earn them at a reasonable rate regardless. I focused on completing daily challenges called “Moments” and was able to earn XP and Stubbs at a pace that didn't coerce me into spending cash. In no time I was able to relive the glory days of the 90’s Seattle Mariners, with Ken Griffey Jr. patrolling the outfield while the golden mullet adorned Randy Johnson attacked batters with relentless fastballs.There are microtransactions in MLB The Show 22, just like in previous years. Paying money for Stubbs in order to unlock packs is a viable way to accelerate team building in Diamond Dynasty, but competitive teams can be built quickly through normal play as well. The cost of stubbs is fairly reasonable too: $5 will buy you 5000 stubbs, which is enough for three Show Packs that have five cards each. But even if you shell out for them, skill reigns supreme in online matches, so cash investments tend to be “pay for an occasional, slight percentage advantage” rather than true pay-to-win.The random nature of what can be found in card packs is also handled fairly well. You won’t know what exactly you will get from a pack, but the odds of finding different kinds of cards are openly displayed, and there is enough variety of themed packs that you have a good idea what types of players you may unlock. It’s still a roll of the dice, but to a more reasonable degree.A new mini-season mode is a very welcome single player focused activity for your Diamond Dynasty team, allowing you to pit them against seven CPU controlled teams in a 28-game season, complete with a miniature playoff at the end. Between this and the returning turn-based-strategy esque Conquest mode, it feels like we have reached a point where it’s possible to have a rewarding Diamond Dynasty experience for players who prefer not to face the wild-west of random human opponents.On the other hand, the Road to the Show story mode is indistinguishable from previous versions, but it continues to be one of the best modes in any sports game anyway. Playing as a created prospect, following your player on their journey to the big leagues while you raise RPG-esque baseball stats, is addictive. Games often take just a few minutes, and it’s hard to resist the urge to play just one more game, especially when you are seeing the ball well and making solid contact as a hitter. The few plays per game I spent on defense, framing pitches and gunning down base stealers as a catcher were great palette cleansers between at-bats, and the stat building mini games on off-days are rewarding. It still takes too long to transition from double-A to triple-A and on, but Road to the Show is so much more about the journey than the destination.The stadium builder has returned exclusively for PS5 and Xbox Series X S players, unfortunately leaving The Show’s Switch debut a slightly incomplete. The user interface has been tweaked, and building your dream ballpark is a smoother experience now that props can quickly be called up from a radial menu. Your custom-created stadium can now be played at day or night, and placing lights is surprisingly strategic. Prebuilt templates can expedite the process, and a great mix of serious and humorous pieces give you freedom to create both classic ballparks and absolute monstrosities. I built a ballpark with alien spaceships and a carefully illuminated (for safety) T-rex herd just because I could. It’s a great example of a feature debuting one year, and improving in moderate but meaningful ways the next.
The House of the Dead: Remake Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/the-house-of-the-dead-remake-review|I’ve thought a lot about The House of the Dead since its arcade debut roughly 25 years ago. Despite the impact it had then and its legacy since, Sega’s original on-rails zombie shooter has only ever been made playable outside of an arcade in the form of mediocre ports to PC and Sega Saturn in 1998, with Sega reportedly losing the original source code. So when a full remake was announced for Switch at long last, I was eager to see what developer MegaPixel Studio could do to make this classic appealing to both veterans like myself and total newcomers to the series. Unfortunately, frustrating controls, a few performance issues, and unavoidably repetitive gameplay make The House of the Dead: Remake a mixed bag for new and old fans alike.Just like in the arcades, you assume the role of either A.M.S. Agent Thomas Rogan or Agent G as they pump hordes of undead full of bullets and try to stop mad scientist Dr. Curien from destroying mankind, with three possible endings depending on how well you do. There are more interesting nuances to the world and its characters than the one-dimensional way they are presented in-game, but sadly finding that story context requires a bit of research through old game manuals or The Wiki of the Dead rather than being explained in The House of the Dead itself.While it stays faithful in that way, I am a little disappointed MegaPixel did not decide to add some of that existing lore into the remake – especially since the studio is also remaking The House of the Dead 2 and could have taken this opportunity to better setup the sequel. Lore additions would have also helped flesh out this entry somewhat, which otherwise remains incredibly short by modern standards. It only takes about half an hour to complete a run from start to finish, including cutscenes, and returning fans will quickly recognize all the same cheesy dialogue lines and only loosely explained story beats as the original.Of course, you don’t really play The House of the Dead for the story – it’s the on-rails zombie shooting that the series is known for. With movement handled automatically, the only thing you have to focus on is pumping the undead full of lead, and that part remains as fun as ever. As repetitive as it can get running through the story repeatedly, there is nothing more satisfying than shooting fictional guns at zombies and infected creatures, all while racking up the highest score you possibly can. You can also find a few different routes that help shake up each run – whether that's by shooting down a certain door, having an enemy knock you down to a different part of the level, or failing to save a scientist – which adds variety and rewards experimentation too. While the number of alternate routes dwindles as you progress further, there’s fun to be found in making your own little goals too, such as trying not to take any damage in a single run or attempting to save all the scientists in one playthrough.And as entertaining as this remake is alone, it’s even better with a friend in two-player co-op. It’s a shame there isn’t an online option, but there are at least two local modes to choose from: competitive and cooperative. The former gives you 10 continues each and a separate score bar, while the latter has you share both your continues and your score in order to work together. The House of the Dead has always been best served with good company, and the inclusion of a competitive mode certainly makes it even more rewarding to play with friends as you try and rack up as many health packs or shoot down as many enemies as possible – provided you are both willing to put up with the controls.The House of the Dead: Remake’s controls take some time to get used to and can feel more complex than they need to be. There are a variety of options to try, from a single Joy-Con (although only when playing co-op, for some odd reason) with full gyro-aiming for that light gun feel to simply using a Pro Controller like an FPS, but all of them can be hit and miss – literally and figuratively.Firing your gun is done by pressing the A or ZR buttons, while reloading is tied to either ZL or the B button. That’s not the most comfortable arrangement, which makes using two connected Joy-Con or the Pro Controller preferable. Outside of providing an additional button for reloading, the D-pad/left Joy-Con buttons allow you to swap between the additional weapons you can unlock. These include options like an assault rifle and a grenade launcher that can obliterate anything in your path, though you won’t be able to unlock and use them until you unlock the armory itself, which requires that you save all the scientists in one run.Both controller options also allow you to use gyro aiming, as well as a combination that uses the thumbsticks by default and then the gyro for finer control. I ended up primarily using this option, though there were moments when I realized the gyro aiming was not registering how I expected it to. That meant I started to rely on the thumbstick more and more – while I could easily click in the right (or left) thumbstick to realign my gyro crosshair if it was slightly out of frame, it was even easier to simply move the thumbstick a bit to shoot an enemy right away. This likely depends on personal preference to some extent, but I found gyro aiming to be a bigger enemy than the zombies more often than not.Gyro aiming is not turned on by default, but if you use it you’ll want to go into the settings to turn it on and adjust things like sensitivity and such to your liking anyway. But this can be extremely intimidating and frustrating as there is a lot of trial and error to get the controls to work just right. The House of the Dead series has a pick up and play mentality, and the default settings have always worked just fine for me with the console ports of later House of the Dead games without having to mess with their similar calibration options. As much as I wanted to fully immerse myself by wielding a single Joy-Con like a light gun pistol, this remake is unreliable without two. More surprisingly, I found better luck with gyro aiming when playing with my Pro Controller or even in handheld mode, which is far from how I expected to prefer an arcade shooter. I can see why the controls were designed the way they were, as the flexibility to play docked, handheld, tabletop, or even on the Switch Lite is appreciated, but I still wish there was an option to remap the control layout to help alleviate some of these problems.I noticed several performance issues not related to the inconsistent gyro aiming as well. There were multiple instances where everything would freeze for a few seconds in the middle of combat – running through the same sections with the “Performance Mode” option enabled provided a higher FPS at the cost of some graphical fidelity, but it didn’t solve freezing issues. Loading screens were also a noticeably slow problem, taking about 35 seconds for each new stage to fully load. These issues are relatively minor but noticeable and annoying nonetheless, especially when The House of the Dead: Remake is not exactly a pretty game to look at from a graphical standpoint. While character models for the main cast look fine for the most part, a lot of the scientists you save look very animatronic, to the point where it can be laughably distracting.The House of the Dead: Remake has two modes: Story, which is pretty much just the original experience, and Horde, which is a new option that is basically the same but with up to a whopping 15 times more zombies on the screen at once. Outside of the sheer volume of enemies, Horde goes through the same four stages and same boss battles, although enemies also take a lot more bullets before going down. It feels a little redundant since Story mode already has four escalating difficulty options (Easy, Normal, Hard, and Arcade), but I still found plenty of satisfying challenge in it as a veteran of the series. Putting Horde on its own Arcade difficulty level ends up being a true test of your skills too. How you take damage has also been adjusted slightly from the original with the amount of damage you take from different enemies scales up in the higher difficulties.Simulating the arcade setting, each run gives you 10 continues that act as lives; once you run out, you can “buy” more by spending the points you’ve earned on the current run, otherwise, it’s game over. You earn points by finding bonus items like coins and (more commonly) defeating enemies. The points vary depending on where you aim and the enemy itself, which encourages more than just blind shooting. And while the classic scoring method is available, there’s also the welcome addition of a new modern scoring option which offers multipliers for doing things like killing a certain number of enemies in a row.The two modes, combined with the difficulty options and different score systems, certainly provide a lot of replay value, and the ability to tailor your settings to your tastes make this remake more approachable to a wider audience. Yet, I was disappointed that additional options like the boss mode or training mode that are part of The House of the Dead 2 weren’t included here. There’s at least a gallery mode that lets you take a close look at all of the weapons you unlock and enemies you defeated, as well as some amusing cheat codes for things like infinite ammo and unlimited continues that only unlock once you complete a certain number of built-in achievements, but those are only entertaining for so long.
LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/legostarwarstheskywalkersagareview|Adventure. Excitement. A Jedi craves not these things. If that’s the case, then all Jedi should probably cancel their preorders for LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga, since this dazzling new entry in Traveller’s Tales’ longrunning LEGO game series has brought both adventure and excitement by the plastic bucketload. With stunning set pieces cribbed from all nine mainline Star Wars films and a surprisingly vast number of iconic planet hubs to freely explore in between, The Skywalker Saga is a brick-breaking blockbuster executed with a goofy charm that had me feeling as happy as a droid in a hot oil bath.In a dramatic departure from the zoomed out camera perspective of previous LEGO titles, The Skywalker Saga features a tighter, over-the-shoulder third-person view typical of the likes of Gears of War or Uncharted, and it brings along with it far greater control over your attacks. Lightsabers can be boomeranged and crates can be Force-pushed with satisfying precision, and a simple combo system allows you to launch enemies into the air for a juggling volley of saber swings with ease. Fighting as a Jedi or Sith might not have the depth of Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, but it’s nonetheless fast, fluid, and it feels fantastic.If you’re controlling a character equipped with a blaster, you now have the option of taking cover behind walls and other objects to pick your foes off from afar, and can switch between cover positions with the tap of the button. (A similar cover-based mechanic was featured in 2016's LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens, but only in specific sections of a level). I love the neat touch atop this system that you’re able to quickly rebuild destroyed cover (as can enemies), but outside of a couple of specific boss fights I hardly ever felt the need to actually shelter behind anything. In The Skywalker Saga, the combination of a constantly recharging health bar and the authentic inaccuracy of each Stormtrooper’s shots meant there was rarely any risk in taking a run and gun approach. I certainly still enjoyed the gunplay in The Skywalker Saga, but more for its flashy spectacle than its shallow attempts at strategy.Not only does the new close-up perspective make you feel more engrossed in the action, it also leads to a greater appreciation of how realistically rendered each individual LEGO brick is. 2021’s Hot Wheels Unleashed set a new standard for high fidelity virtual plastic, and The Skywalker Saga certainly matches it down to every last plastic seam and textured hair piece, with the paint on minifigs chipping away convincingly after extended use as though they’re a much-loved toy. Absolutely every LEGO creation looks so uncannily true to life, that when you blast an immaculately assembled 1000-piece Tie Fighter out of the sky, you can almost hear the cries of anguish from the parent who spent their whole Sunday afternoon helping their kid build it.The LEGO games have always lent a Spaceballs-style silliness to their recreations of iconic Star Wars scenes and The Skywalker Saga is no different, consistently seeking out the lighter side of the Force in even the most somber of situations. Whether it’s Emperor Palpatine and Darth Vader discussing the new Death Star while rows of Stormtroopers awkwardly topple over like dominos in the background, or a confused Darth Sidious accidentally issuing Order 67 instead of 66 and forcing all the clone troopers to spontaneously start disco dancing rather than commit mass Jedi genocide, The Skywalker Saga consistently finds a way to gently mock its source material with wonderfully absurd and hilarious results. Amazingly, even the events of The Rise of Skywalker are substantially more enjoyable when they’re deliberately ridiculous, as opposed to accidentally so.It’s not just The Skywalker Saga’s sense of humour that kept me engaged, but its mission variety too. Though never quite as daring or inventive as 2021’s It Takes Two, the 45 main story levels constantly switch things up so that the action never grows stale. The Skywalker Saga is capable of delivering mindless carnage on a massive scale, like when The Battle of Naboo briefly blossoms into a thrilling game of tower defense, and you gleefully lob balls of energy from Gungan catapults to decimate hordes of Trade Federation droids and assault tanks. Yet it can also be more focused and cerebral, such as when Rey enters the mirror cave on Temple Island, and you carefully puppeteer her reflections in order to reach exit portal switches.This is on top of the fan-pleasing standards, of course, and The Skywalker Saga does indeed feature levels designed around high-speed podracing, X-Wing trench runs and all the major lightsaber duels you’d expect. But even at its most familiar moments, the campaign is still a blast to play because it feels so smooth and is such an eye-popping sight to behold. The only occasional catch is that its strict adherence to a cinematic style of presentation can come across as a bit too rigid at times. In one of the boss fights against Kylo Ren, for instance, I’d whittled his health bar down to zero, yet the fight arbitrarily continued for another minute, all so I could button-mash my way through the remaining quicktime events.Each story mission is connected by surprisingly sizeable hub areas situated on some 20-odd different planets, from the sandswept streets of Mos Eisley on Tatooine to the polished surfaces of Coruscant's Financial District, and everywhere in between. These open areas are absolutely rife with hidden Kyber bricks to collect by solving various environmental puzzles, and while you do see some repeated challenges across the galaxy – stacking crates to reach Kyber bricks suspended in the air seems to be a popular task no matter which planet you’re on – there are plenty of other fun little surprises to stumble upon along the way. I particularly enjoyed the Lemmings-inspired challenge on Kamino that tasked me with adjusting a series of platforms to prevent a hapless clone from shuffling to his doom, or arranging a choir of Wookiees on Kashyyyk to angrily yawn a rendition of John Williams’ signature score.Collected Kyber bricks serve as a currency that, in addition to studs, can be invested into upgrades – either core perks shared by all characters, or class specific enhancements. While many of the core upgrades seemed like no-brainers to me, such as widening the radius in which your character automatically hoovers up dropped studs or increasing the speed with which they build objects, the vast majority of class specific perks seemed unnecessary given that The Skywalker Saga’s difficulty level is already all too easy. What incentive is there to give bounty hunters the ability to spot enemies through walls when I can easily dispatch whoever is on the other side with a couple of blaster bolts, even if they get the jump on me?While I primarily stayed on target and focused on the main mission path, once I had finished all the story missions I spent a few more hours revisiting my favourite locations and completing side missions to unlock additional characters, and then swapping them in and out of my touring party in order to utilise their unique abilities to solve specific problems. It’s during these moments, when you’re jetting from one solar system to the next and cruising down to a planet’s surface to run odd jobs for local townsfolk, that The Skywalker Saga starts to resemble some sort of adorable Mass Effect for minifigs. And if you get tired of exploring and action-platforming your way across the wealth of planets, you can always just pick your favourite starship and jet up into orbit for some impromptu dogfighting. There really is a staggering amount to do in The Skywalker Saga, and despite the fact I’ve spent over 20 hours with the game I feel like I’ve only just scratched the surface – there are seemingly enough collectible LEGO vehicles and minifigs in here to populate several hundred letters to Santa.The one Star Destroyer-sized blight on my experience with The Skywalker Saga was the bug I encountered that made progressing the story of the prequel trilogy beyond Attack of the Clones impossible. Playing on Xbox Series X, I experienced a crash while trying to launch a mission hunting for Jango Fett, and when I rebooted The Skywalker Saga that mission marker was gone from the map and menus with seemingly no way of retriggering it. Since you can hop in and out of each episode and play the three trilogies in any order, I was still able to complete Episodes IV through to IX on my original save, but I needed to create a new game in order to play through Episodes I to III, during which the game breaking bug was thankfully no longer present. (At the time of writing, the developer has told me they are working on a patch to prevent the issue.)I also noticed some slight problems with The Skywalker Saga’s drop-in/drop-out local co-op mode. Across the nine episodes, I spent about half of it playing solo and the other with my son as a co-op partner. On balance, I had substantially more fun with a second player onboard and the comedic chaos it created, but the diminished field of view within the confines of the vertical split-screen did make combat feel a bit imprecise and exploration slightly more disorientating. Additionally, one player always seemed to get the rough end of the gaffi stick when it came to the story mode boss fights, relegated to the role of a comparatively impotent companion droid while the other player indulged in a spectacular lightsaber duel. At one stage in the climactic confrontation between Obi-Wan and Anakin on the molten surface of Mustafar, I spent a significant stretch as C-3PO stranded as a spectator on a hovering platform while all the action unfolded below. It left me feeling a bit C-3PO’d.
Kirby and the Forgotten Land Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/kirby-and-the-forgotten-land-review|Kirby is no stranger to reinvention. His ability to transform himself into all sorts of shapes and sizes aside, the games he’s in often experiment with new settings and gimmicks as well – whether it’s rolling a limbless Kirby with the DS stylus in Canvas Curse, piloting mechs in Planet Robobot, or fundamentally changing how he transforms in Epic Yarn. Kirby and the Forgotten Land might seem like another addition to that list at first glance, this time warping the traditionally 2D structure into 3D levels. But in reality, this platformer feels like the next big step for a more classic Kirby formula rather than an upheaval of it, and it’s one that skillfully translates the things I love about Kirby into a fresh – but still familiar – new perspective.The Kirby series isn’t one I would have pinned as the type for a trip to a post-apocalyptic setting, but after a wormhole opens above Dream Land, the ruined remains of a seemingly human society are exactly where we find our pink protagonist. Amidst the rusted buildings and pleasantly vibrant overgrowth is a group of Waddle Dees looking to settle down in their new home… or they would be, if they weren’t all immediately kidnapped by monsters. And with that simple but effective setup out of the way, it’s up to Kirby to venture through this dilapidated world to rescue as many as he can and help them to rebuild their town.Doing so requires you to float your way through a series of linear levels, sucking up enemies to steal their powers and finding secrets along the way. Obviously the shift from 2D changes how exactly you go about doing that, but the movement, combat, and general way alternate paths or items are hidden are all recognizable and satisfying – others have likened it to Mario’s own perspective shift in Super Mario 3D World, and I don’t think it’s an unfair comparison to make. It’s also a joy to track down the Waddle Dees hiding in optional offshoots and secret alcoves, especially since new buildings will spring up in town as its population increases, giving you the opportunity to purchase item buffs, unlock ability upgrades, and even play a few cute little minigames like fishing.The levels themselves blend platforming puzzles with combat throughout, and the dozen or so copy abilities you get by inhaling certain enemies have amusing roles to play in both. Combat is fairly simple, but the different flavor each ability brings keeps it interesting whether you’re burning baddies with fire or shooting them with a literal gun. On the platforming side, options like the ice ability let you safely skate across hazardous terrain while the sword can cut certain ropes to open new paths. All of these abilities are used in consistently clever ways, with every level pushing you to swap between them as different situations or gated sections arise.Forgotten Land isn’t a very challenging game (even on its optimistically named “Wild Mode” difficulty), but it’s far from a mindless one – not like Yoshi’s latest outing in Crafted World, for example, which was fun but had some levels where you could essentially just hold the stick to the right until you reached the goal. Here, harder enemies push you to move around and make the most of each ability’s limited move set, especially during the handful of creatively constructed boss fights, and secrets can range from being hidden practically in plain sight to being surprisingly well tucked away. I only died once or twice in my roughly 10-hour playthrough, but after the first couple of stages it was rare for me to 100% a level on my initial run through it, and I was frequently tempted back in to dig up everything I had missed. That said, it can sometimes be a little unclear when something is a secret path or just a gap in the terrain decorations with an annoying invisible wall, but that was only an occasional inconvenience.Those decorations and some of the mechanics around them are distinguished by the themed “worlds” every stage is sorted into, including settings like a water-focused beach area, a snowy landscape with buildings inspired more by British architecture, and an illuminated carnival ground. Forgotten Land can be an unexpectedly pretty game, especially during its personality-filled cutscenes, with a great use of color throughout and some elaborate locations at times – be those complex circus rides or rundown mall interiors. But while each world is enjoyably varied, the post-apocalyptic setting as a whole isn’t necessarily the most thrilling one. Kirby inevitably ends up jumping across different flavors of rusty rooftop or crumbling city street in every world, and this wasteland just isn’t as cool as any of the fantastical places he’s visited in his own universe.That extends somewhat to the new “Mouthful” abilities he can use, which includes the now-notorious car transformation. These are everyday objects that Kirby can’t quite swallow, instead altering his body while his mouth is wrapped around them (gross) to let you navigate a specific area ahead of you. Call me old fashioned, but Kirby mostly turning into a vending machine would be more odd than it was clever if it weren’t for the fun way these Mouthful powers are used and revisited throughout the campaign. The car lets you drive fast through some exciting tracks designed for speed, the vending machine slows your movement but lets you rapidly fire cans out of your mouth, and one hilarious circular object basically turns Kirby into a giant air blaster that can be used to spin fans, knock over enemies, and even power little boats through the water. I’m not sure how Developer HAL Laboratory did it, but they managed to make traffic cones, scissor lifts, and even large, nondescript metal pipes into genuinely entertaining transformations.You’re also given additional opportunities to test your expertise with all of Kirby’s powers (Mouthful or not) in the special Treasure Road challenges between levels. These bonus rooms give you a specific ability in a race against time, rewarding you with a special star if you can make it to the end of an obstacle course fast enough and a handful of the coin-based currency if you can do so under a certain target time. The Treasure Roads ended up being some of my favorite parts of Forgotten Land, acting as quick bites of optional challenge that often made the smartest use of what each transformation could do. For example, the fact that the cutter ability’s blade boomerangs back to you might just add a little extra damage during fights in a regular level, but in a Treasure Road mastering that behavior could be the difference between hitting the target time or not. The coin reward for doing so is a fairly insubstantial draw on its own, but that didn’t stop me from frequently trying to refine my movement and push my time below it anyway.Those stars you get feed into another neat addition too: blueprints hidden in levels (or sometimes just handed to you after big fights) which will unlock upgraded versions of specific abilities that you can buy with stars and coins, like giving your cutter two blades instead of one. That helps keep them fresh all the way through, even if it very rarely changes how you’ll actually think about using them in a given situation. Thanks to my relatively thorough playstyle I always had enough stars and coins to unlock all of them as soon as I found their blueprints until nearly the very end, which means the process of going back to town to pay for an upgrade after finding each blueprint was largely symbolic – but hey, the point is that my fire ability makes me look like a dragon now.Forgotten Land also has co-op play, but the way that’s been implemented is one of its few letdowns. It’s nice that a second player can hop in at pretty much any time, but doing so feels very much like a “younger sibling” mode. Player two can only play as Bandana Waddle Dee, who wields a spear and disappointingly can’t use any abilities, which past Kirby games have often allowed your partner to do. To make matters worse, the camera remains focused squarely on Kirby with no regard for the second player, frequently causing them to fall off screen and teleport back to you like the world’s shortest yo-yo. It’s still a fun time to run through levels or boss fights in co-op, it’s just a far cry from the best co-op a Kirby game has seen.
Rune Factory 5 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/rune-factory-5-review|There’s a disappointing trend going on right now with the classic trio of farm life sims – Harvest Moon, Story of Seasons, and now Rune Factory all having a rough time making the jump from handheld to console. Last year Story of Seasons made the leap best, if imperfectly, while Harvest Moon’s attempt around the same time was utterly mediocre. Rune Factory 5 has fallen somewhere in the middle, with the series’ first dedicated Switch game largely clinging to the depth that has earned it praise in the past. Unfortunately, it can’t manage to translate other elements like “looking nice” or “running well” in its move from Rune Factory 4's top-down perspective to a 3D world, leaving it in a fun but frequently frustrating spot.Rune Factory 5’s abrupt opening sees a young amnesiac hero dropped via portal just outside the backwater town of Rigbarth, where a community service-oriented organization called SEED takes them in as the newest ranger – basically a scout crossed with a monster cop. As a SEED ranger, the protagonist can tend a massive farm and grow tons of different crops, capture and raise a wide array of wild monsters for resources and combat assistance, run various errands for the villagers, or fight off monsters that threaten the town. Their community service quickly takes a cheesy if enjoyable turn into a winding mystery involving powerful creatures, more folks turning up with amnesia, dragons, and plenty more pleasantly extra anime protagonist fluff.The story itself is surprisingly meaty, kept fresh across numerous excursions into monster-infested wilds by a decent amount of variety in its biomes (including a prehistoric volcano, ice caverns, and a dope ghost town) and enemy types (ranging from cute little sheep-like dudes to heinous teleporting grim reaper guys). Just when I thought I'd explored everything there was to see, I'd be sent into another dungeon I didn't know existed, or back into an old dungeon to delve into an entirely new set of caves, always with enough updates to avoid being a reskin of the upper levels I had already moved on from.As usual for Rune Factory, you can befriend your neighbors and progress their individual storylines through conversations, cutscenes, and gifts – some of whom you can eventually marry and have a child with. The roster of 12 bachelors and bachelorettes in Rune Factory 5 is pleasingly varied with great art design and with plenty of variety in personality types, though almost all of the options are on the younger end of adulthood with the only more mature options being the lupine Murakumo and the succubus Ludmila. Every romanceable character has numerous story events you can unlock and participate in as your affections grow, and unlike other games with similar features Rune Factory 5 has helpful map icons to ensure you know exactly where to find them once they're available. Even the folks in town you can't marry are interesting enough, and worth taking the time to chat with and befriend.One way to befriend them is through the tasks board outside of SEED headquarters, where townspeople will offer rewards in return for various tasks being done. A sizable chunk of these jobs are glorified tutorials, steadily guiding you through Rune Factory 5’s numerous farming, crafting, and combat intricacies and offering rewards for figuring them out. It’s an imperfect way to teach you the basics, as the slow pacing of these quests meant I had often mastered a system well before it was introduced via sidequest, or wasn’t shown a helpful system until much later on because I was stuck on an earlier task. But because Rune Factory 5 is so wonderfully open-ended and unconcerned with time constraints, these pacing blips didn’t matter much in the long run.To Rune Factory’s credit, you can either beeline your way through the main story and finish in about 35 hours, or take it at a slower pace alongside the rest of its activities and extend it out much, much longer. That said, one odd story quirk pushed me more toward the former approach where I would have preferred the latter. An event about one-third of the way into the story takes away a key power from the main character, one tied to everything from monster catching to raising one’s rank within the SEED organization to collecting certain useful items. You don’t get this power back until you’ve completed about 5-10 more hours of dungeons and story events, though that time stretches even longer if you’re busy farming, crafting, or hanging out with your neighbors instead of dashing your way through mainline quests. It’s a weird choice that forced me to play Rune Factory 5 in a much more story-focused way than I would have otherwise, just so I could get back to filling all my empty barns with Woolys again.That story speedrun I went through was primarily disappointing because Rune Factory 5's farming, crafting, and relationship systems are so broad that I always had more I wanted to do outside of the main plot. As usual for Rune Factory, time in-game progresses through six-day weeks, four per season, with built-in time of day, weather, and seasons impacting how your crops grow, what your neighbors are doing, what events can occur, and more. Central to Rune Factory 5 is the farm, which you can clear of debris, till, sow, water, and harvest at your leisure. Crops grow fast and are not confined to seasons, so you can grow whatever, whenever, and will unlock new crops over time through certain sidequests. But while it’s easy to grow crops at all, there's a surprising amount of depth to growing crops well. Factors like seasons, how much you're using the same patch of soil, how you're harvesting seeds, and so much more impact your crop yield and quality. Having the flexibility to ignore it all if you want or spend hours trying to get the most perfect green peppers you can grow makes the whole system spring with life.Closely tied to farming is Rune Factory 5’s robust crafting system. In fact, crafting is at the heart of everything in Rune Factory 5 – it leads to stronger weapons and armor for dungeon crawls, better farming tools, higher quality meals cooked from farmed crops that you can sell or give to neighbors, and so much more. Rune Factory 5 does overdo it a little in the sheer chaos of how many unique crafting tables you need sitting around to make everything you want, and learning new recipes is unfortunately dependent on some level of luck, as you learn a few random recipes each time you consume a “recipe bread” item for a given trade. But as with farming, you’re free to engage with crafting minimally if you just want to get the things you need for the specific trade you’re interested in – you can acquire almost anything you would craft, admittedly with some more luck, by simply running around and hitting enemies for long enough, or as gifts from your neighbors. Or, you can dive in headfirst and try to master every single recipe.I love cooking in video games, and while Rune Factory 5’s crafting system required me to set up something like five different tables for all my different culinary endeavors, I had a great time chasing down new recipes and puzzling out how to make them. Like its other crafting systems, cooking in Rune Factory 5 consumes rune power, of which you have a limited amount each day (though you can restore or increase it through various methods). You can use a recipe to cook something for a small amount of rune power, or you can experiment with different ingredients and try to discover something on your own for a much larger amount.Even if it wasn’t always advantageous to do so, I really enjoyed trying to learn the rules of Rune Factory 5’s cooking so I could more effectively experiment. For instance, using the cutting board on most kinds of fish would result in a new sashimi recipe, and the blender with different fruits or veggies would net me some type of drink or smoothie. It’s also a great moneymaker too – with a single daily egg and milk from two monsters in my barn, I could make a fancy omelet to sell or give away to someone I loved. Essentially, if I really wanted to, I could have played through the majority of Rune Factory 5 just as a chef and ignored 90% of everything else – and that’s part of what makes it fun.One small detail that unexpectedly stands out is the writing in Rune Factory 5’s item descriptions. Almost every item has a funny blurb explaining what it is and does, and almost all of these are not only helpful, but also entertaining – things like the Safety Lance’s punny reference to the song “Safety Dance” in its description, or the blunt explanation that “Spider’s Thread” apparently “Comes from a spider’s butt.” These clever lines were a little touch that frequently made me chuckle, and are especially impressive given the sheer volume of items I was able to find and craft.Alongside farming and crafting, the other central pillar of Rune Factory 5 is its combat, which has a surprisingly wide array of weapon options (from short swords to fists to magic staves), spells, and physical weapon skills to customize your loadout with. Like farming, Rune Factory 5’s combat is something you can engage with a little or a lot depending on your interests – you can focus heavily on weapon types and upgrades via crafting, stats, and skills to truly hone your technique, or you can grind and button mash your way through everything on a lower difficulty and no one will blink at you for it. It’s a great system on paper, but both combat and farming can be massively frustrating due to just how bad Rune Factory 5 feels to play.Simply put, Rune Factory 5 runs terribly on Switch. The controls are slippery and imprecise, an issue exacerbated further when playing docked, where significant input lag causes actions to take longer than you’d expect. That often made me overshoot the plot of ground I was trying to water, the spot I wanted to place a piece of furniture, or the monster I was trying to whack with my sword. That technical jankiness is especially frustrating during combat, with input lag making it challenging to dodge enemy attacks, and the slippery controls making movement awkward and chaotic. Because Rune Factory 5 gives you so much freedom and so many options to grind against enemies and get better weapons, I was fortunately never stuck in a situation where bad controls made a fight impossible – even on hard mode. But they did make what could have been one of the main draws of Rune Factory significantly less fun. (Rune Factory 5 is also alarmingly sensitive to stick drift, something I experienced surprisingly frequently even when using the generally more resilient Pro Controller.)These issues are not limited to movement either, as Rune Factory 5 has aesthetic problems too. While not the first 3D Rune Factory game, the jump from top-down to third-person was a rocky one here, leaving Rune Factory 5 lacking in much of the charm and detail that the worlds of its 2D predecessors were praised for, including Rune Factory 4 Special on Switch. The character design remains stellar, especially their dialogue portraits and the animated introductions for bachelors and bachelorettes – but the world itself is full of flat textures and long stretches of bland, empty space. The town of Rigbarth and its surrounding countryside feel big and empty for no reason, with objects suddenly popping in regularly and frequent framerate issues whenever there are a few too many things on screen at once. And sure, when I play a sim like Rune Factory I can still enjoy it without stellar technical prowess or cutting edge graphics. But with a ten year gap between games, I was hoping Rune Factory 5 would try to be something a little more impressive than “Rune Factory 4, but clunkier.”
Triangle Strategy Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/triangle-strategy-review-nintendo-switch|Triangle Strategy starts slowly. Pressing "New Game" leads to a series of unappealing events. You're introduced to your character, Serenoa Wolffort, and his extremely boring retainers and fiancee. You're given a bunch of narration about the recent history of a fantasy land whose most interesting characteristic is that there isn't much naturally occurring salt. There's cutscene after cutscene, introducing character after character with almost no context. You barely have to actually do anything, with the exception of a simple intro battle – and that battle system lacks an obvious hook. It's awkward and frustrating with very little other than the marvelous pixel art to keep it motivating. But despite an unappealing start, over the course of its 40-plus hours that slowness becomes a virtue, growing into one of the most effective and entertaining examples of the tactical RPG form.Don’t worry - this is not one of those “it gets amazing after the first two dozen terrible hours” kinds of JRPGs. Almost every part of that frustrating start fades away, some problems almost immediately, revealing a game whose slow confidence is a virtue. The mundanity of the setting turns into a tense, extremely human political drama. The overwhelming number of characters provides fertile ground for intrigue, as seemingly major characters can be dispatched once the story gets violent, while minor characters step up. It slowly reveals a system where expressing beliefs, gathering information, and understanding character relationships all become important. Combat never becomes overly complex, yet somehow always feels perfectly tuned. And the main character….well, the main character just always makes Jon Snow look exciting by comparison. Sorry about that.The initial impressive standout for Triangle Strategy is its two-dimensional character pixel art that exists in a flexible three-dimensional world. It’s the hallmark of Tomoya Asano, who also worked as a producer on the similarly impressive Octopath Traveler. Being able to zoom in and out and swirl the camera around or tilt from an isometric to a top-down view, all while looking consistent and clear, is a tremendous achievement. It looks good on both TV mode and handheld on the Switch, although I ended up preferring the latter slightly because the characters really popped on the small screen. Likewise, (and also extremely importantly for a word- and number-heavy RPG) I was able to easily read all the text fairly easily both on the Switch itself and on a relatively small television.Game of TrianglesIt's important to start with the plot and setting, because this is a story-heavy game. Magic exists on the continent of Norzelia, but here it's a tool and weapon more than a world-defining power. Instead, the characters do battle over resources and political authority. The three competing states have vied for control of salt and iron, but a new joint mining project serves as a symbol of peace. Needless to say, things go badly, and everyone starts fighting once again.The grounded human story of resources and ambition may not sound exciting, but in a genre that's usually filled with mad mages or ancient gods threatening to destroy their respective worlds, it's refreshing to play a game focused on human political machinations. One of my favorite characters was introduced as powerful but sympathetic, then was ordered to war in which they killed off some major good guys, but then they slowly started their path down a redemption arc as they realized just how far they'd gone into the brutality. It would be easy, but not unfair, to compare Triangle Strategy to Game of Thrones in many ways.One the other hand, the four main characters of Triangle Strategy suffer because they are too similarly boring. The young Lord Serenoa, his betrothed Frederica, his advisor Benedict, and his best friend Prince Roland and most other party members are kind, responsible, and excruciatingly, painfully, polite at all times. They don't seem to have any baser instincts and they never swear, lose their temper, express desire, or anything that might seem fun. There are even flashbacks for some of the older characters showing their rowdy youth, and the extent of them is that they sometimes raced in order to see who could follow orders the most efficiently. How rebellious! In a genre filled with flamboyant and memorable characters in games like Fire Emblem, Final Fantasy, or Persona, it's almost shocking to have a set of main characters be so aggressively dull.Yet even this character weakness is mitigated by some of Triangle Strategy's other strengths. First, the plot they participate in ends up stressing them out enough that a personality starts to show through, even if it is still universally positive and responsible – like Frederica's intense need for justice or Roland's love for his family. Bigger than that is the Scales of Conviction system, where whenever House Wolffort faces a major choice, instead of asking us to simply make it through Serenoa, the seven main party members all discuss and vote on it. The votes are binding and can go against your wishes, and as time goes on, they take on more and more importance to both the future of the characters and Norzelia. The higher stakes make the differences in character motivations stand out more, even if they remain – again – excruciatingly polite and rational throughout.There are a few ways to affect the votes. Some small exploration phases allow you to gather information that might prove useful; the knowledge that the Wolffort village is riddled with traps could make inviting an invasion seem more palatable, for instance. Second, dialogue options that match a character's impulses can help: knowing that Benedict is pragmatic means those options are most likely to sway him, while Roland is more focused on loyalty. Finally, based on other choices in dialogue, Sereoa has "Convictions" in Utility, Morality, and Liberty stats that can help strengthen his arguments. In one campaign I had generally focused on being kind and honest, which led to difficulties when I wanted to make a choice of whether to play along with a corrupt offer while my retainers all voted to be honest and expose the corruption immediately.The voting and Conviction systems end up being very clever ways to manifest your choices. All the little dialogue decisions you make (and even some actions taken in combat) end up combining to both subtly lead Serenoa down particular paths, and unlock side characters and flashbacks for them. That scrupulous honesty, for example, helped me acquire the honest anti-corruption support character Julio, who proved invaluable in the late game as someone who could keep my mages casting spells with no breaks. On the downside, the Conviction system is masked for the entire first playthrough, which did lead me to some confusion over whether I was supposed to know what was happening or not. (Relaxing and letting the campaign happen as it happens proved to be one of the better ways to play.)The choice system is also deployed well in some crucial ways. For example, one of the seemingly minor setting traits of Triangle Strategy is that it includes an oppressed people called the Roselle, whose historical and religious oppression seemed directly inspired by the history of the Jewish people in a way that was so direct as to feel awkward (real history of real oppressed people being given a slight fantastical mask can lead down some strange and unpleasant paths). But Triangle Strategy consistently gave me the opportunity to take action to make life better for the Roselle when they became relevant. That oppression wasn't mere window dressing to make the world seem darker and more realistic, but instead some created a storytelling opportunity. I still think the Roselle are a little weird, especially the physical trait of pink hair, but they were definitely handled a lot better than I’d feared.The quiet confidence of Triangle Strategy is even more apparent in the combat system, which initially felt like a perfectly generic tactical RPG. But as the campaign went on it increasingly impressed me with some of the best level design and difficulty tuning I've ever seen in a tactics game.The combat form is similar to Final Fantasy Tactics or Fire Emblem: you have a party of eight to 12 characters that you move around a tile-based map in turn. Each character has different skills and stats: Benedict is a supporting class who can use skills that make your characters stronger, tougher, or faster, but does little damage on his own; Roland is a fast-moving cavalryman who can do a lot of damage but doesn't last long if he gets isolated. It's a very traditional form, and one that's stood the test of time because it's an effective way to provide strategic challenges for players while combined with character distinctions and personality shown through actions.There are small tactical considerations built into the Triangle Strategy system: some enemies take more damage against certain spell types, while taking advantage of the terrain and attacking from higher ground or hitting enemies from behind can do more damage. But these are small features and don't add up to, for example, a combo system like that in Disgaea, where the goal is to create the biggest exploits you possibly can. In Triangle Strategy, the progression system doesn't allow for creating superpowered characters like those in Final Fantasy Tactics. Nor is there anything like Fire Emblem's friendship system to encourage combat choices beyond simply "do the most damage."Instead, Triangle Strategy has simpler, quieter progression. Characters get slightly but noticeably stronger in ways that allow some temporary advantages, but then tougher enemies also pick up their own strengths. And while you can't completely reshape your characters, there are enough items and progression choices via weapon upgrades that can tweak them in important ways. As I noticed that Erador, the main heavy infantry character, was starting to take massive magic damage, I upgraded his magic defense and so that he was able to stand my ground more. Meanwhile, every time I thought I found a major advantage – like picking up the powerful archer Archibald – I watched as the enemy forces got strong enough that what I had previously thought was being overpowered became simply another useful strategy.The tactics genre is one where balancing difficulty is essential, and that's proven demonstrably tough to do. As much as I love both XCOM 2 and Fire Emblem: Three Houses, figuring out what difficulty level I actually want for a consistent challenge was a major frustration for me in both cases. So it's extremely high praise when I say that Triangle Strategy, on the default Normal setting, provided me with exactly the level of difficulty I wanted at almost every turn. When I got stuck on those harder fights, there were interesting and worthwhile optional battles I could engage in to level up a bit, or else I could just experiment with changing my characters’ formation and roster. "Ah, so if I used the ice mage here, and set my party up on the left instead of meeting the enemy head on, I can survive longer" are the exact sorts of tactical decisions that I hope to make in games like this.What's more, the combat system manages to apply that consistent difficulty across multiple level types due to varied and clever level design. In one late-game battle, I was faced with a powerful enemy force headed directly at me – an all-against-all scrum of the sort that tactics games rarely actually try to pull off. I succeeded by loading up on archers and getting them in flanking positions in order to burn down as many enemies as possible, keeping the numbers my melee characters had to deal with manageable. This came right after a battle in a mine, where several mine carts allowed fast movement around the map. That was the complete opposite structure: a series of small group battles where I worked to quickly shuffle support characters around in order to get small advantages that added up to a win.Pixelated GreatnessTriangle Strategy also rises to the occasion whenever a major plot battle occurs, both in combat design and also aesthetically. The music – which is so important in this genre – is generally perfectly fine, but in some of the big battle themes it goes above and beyond, particularly with one tune that gives off a spaghetti western vibe. There's also some unique character dialogue that happens during these fights, which is especially useful because the villains tend to carry the campaign in terms of personality.
Aztech Forgotten Gods Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/aztech-forgotten-gods-review|What if Tenochtitlán, the island city at the heart of the Aztec empire, had never been sacked by European conquerors? In the alternate timeline of Aztech Forgotten Gods, we get to see what that might have looked like: a thriving, technologically advanced metropolis that blends Mesoamerican-inspired design with a Tron-like aesthetic. Described by Mexico-based developer Lienzo as a “cyber-stone action-adventure,” Aztech’s memorable setting can be delightful to explore — that is, when the wonky camera and frustrating boss fights aren’t getting in the way.Aztech Forgotten Gods is a fairly linear, eight-hour adventure about Achtli, a young woman so haunted by her past that she can’t move forward in life. After uncovering an ancient artifact — a giant stone arm that replaces her prosthetic one — that allows her to soar high above the city streets, Achtli finds herself facing off against a number of newly awakened ancient gods that threaten to destroy Tenochtitlán and all of its inhabitants. The story works well enough but Achtli is underserved by the fact that the dialogue is text-only and often accompanied by repeating animations that show characters moving their lips and bodies in the same way over and over again. Even so, I became fond of the defiant Achtli, her ride-or-die best friend Tepo, and her supportive mother Nantsin thanks to their snappy writing and the enjoyable story.Flying from one edge of the city to the other felt amazing once I got used to it. Launching Achtli into the air, soaring around in every direction, and using speed boosts from strategically placed floating rings feels natural and fluid (though it’s a little weird that there are so many of them when Achtli is the only person who can fly). You’ll spend most of your time in the air, though a depleting energy bar sometimes requires you to be thoughtful about when and where you land, particularly when trying to take down a rampaging stone giant. Few games have made flying feel so intuitive, and this system sets Aztech apart from other action-adventure games that take place largely on solid land.That said, despite being large and full of structures, the city often feels empty — hardly the bustling metropolis and global superpower it’s supposed to be. There aren’t many inhabitants, and the NPCs that do meander around don’t have much to say. There are a few off-the-beaten-path spots where you can engage in combat or race challenges or discover missing memories to find, at least.Unfortunately, Aztech’s combat isn’t nearly as enjoyable as its exploration. For the most part, fighting both the smaller enemies that pop up throughout Tenochtitlán and the oversized stony gods is an exercise in button-mashing. Achtli does have a few special moves — a powered-up super-punch, shooting energy-based projectiles, a downward strike — but it’s rarely worth it to use this entire skillset because doing so requires precise placement and timing in boss battles that are largely chaotic. Instead, it was much more effective to spam basic attacks unless otherwise required and fly away to recover when Achtli’s health bar got too low.Speaking of those boss battles, that’s where you’ll do the bulk of the fighting, and they can feel like more of a chore than a challenge. These hulking masses of stone and mythology typically require several steps to defeat, but the objectives of each phase are often unclear and the bosses don’t react visibly to your attacks. There were times when I couldn’t tell if I was doing any damage outside of watching the health bar at the top of the screen, and all I felt after each giant battle was a sense of relief that it was over, not satisfaction.Still, the most challenging foe you’ll face in Aztech isn’t one of the titular forgotten gods — it’s the camera. Though you’re technically in control of its movement, it sometimes feels like it has a mind of its own, especially when you’re getting knocked around. Rogue camera angles can remove Achtli from view entirely, which isn’t an ideal way to play a third-person action game. The camera might also switch angles depending on where she lands, messing up the fluidity of the otherwise-delightful mobility. This is a big reason why the boss fights can be frustrating; it’s not fun taking the time to set up an attack, only to have it thwarted when the camera switches around seemingly at random.Aztech Forgotten Gods certainly isn’t a display of high-end graphical tech, but what it lacks in polish – such as the frequent clipping issues we see in Achtli’s hair and apparel – it makes up for in style. The Mesoamerican inspiration shines through in the customizable outfits and hairstyles, character design, and the sprawling city itself. The small but memorable cast of characters would definitely stand out in a crowd, and the dialogue sprinkles in bits of Nahuatl language that helps bring this futuristic version of Tenochtitlán to life. It feels like this vision of an alternate-history Aztec empire was crafted with care and consideration, which went a long way towards making me willing to overlook the more frustrating parts.
Far: Changing Tides Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/far-changing-tides-review|Bigger isn’t always better. In the case of Far: Changing Tides, a sequel to 2018’s lovely and underappreciated Far: Lone Sails, bigger certainly means more to do and see, but it doesn’t necessarily mean those things are any more interesting. It’s still an absolutely gorgeous and at times almost meditative roadtrip across a world full of stunning vistas and clever puzzles – but developer Okomotive’s efforts to make it a more mechanically varied journey, while successful, also inadvertently tip the balance of the original’s formula from peaceful to tedious at times.Far: Changing Tides puts you in control of an almost comically small person, at least compared to the large sailing vessel they are piloting all on their own. Like its predecessor, it tells a story with little-to-no words, communicating information through visuals to generally strong effect. Most of the time you may not know exactly what you’re doing in this apparently post-apocalyptic world, but you’ll never feel lost either, and never lose motivation to keep sailing toward the right in search of some salvation or another.Propelling your ship is either done by unfurling a sail on top of it or by hopping around its innards to manually fuel and fan a giant engine. It’s a fun little dance to do, asking you to scavenge resources to burn from beneath the waves as you travel, make sure the engine doesn’t overheat, and perform other little tasks in order to keep you sailing smoothly – not to mention you’ll occasionally have to hop out entirely in order to address larger obstacles blocking your way, like massive closed gates or abandoned buildings. Once you get a specific upgrade, your ship even has the ability to dive below the water itself and basically become a submarine, cleverly allowing you to go under some roadblocks rather than through them.But while that’s a flashy addition, the most impactful change from the original is that raising your sail isn’t quite as simple this time around. Rather than just pressing a button, you first have to raise a mast, then climb it, grab a rope to attach back down below, and finally adjust the position of the sails to match the frequently shifting wind for optimal speed. Additionally, there are obstacles in the background that your sails can run into and get damaged, as well as low overhangs that will knock down your mast. These additions do make the process of sailing without your engine more engaging, but unfortunately it’s mostly in the same way that you have to be “engaged” while trying to swat a fly.While Changing Tides’ scenery is beautiful, the 2D perspective makes it annoyingly difficult to determine whether or not your sail is actually going to hit something. Additionally, unless you are already on the roof of your ship, you often have very little time to react between seeing an oncoming overhang and actually being able to do something about it, even when zoomed out. What that means is that some of my absolute favorite moments in Lone Sails – catching a breeze and simply enjoying its sights and music after a stressful stretch of powering the engine – are essentially gone, with those sections now occupied by the worries of sail management, threat assessment, and running inside to check your radar to make sure you’re not missing items hidden beneath the waves. These added tasks are still entertaining but make for a very different overall vibe, and it’s one I grew tired of more quickly.Thankfully the areas you are sailing through are still a feast for the eyes and ears. The subtle score perfectly fits the terrain around it (even if it’s not as memorable as Lone Sails’ incredible soundtrack), and your path to the right is frequently full of moments you could screenshot, print out, and post on an art gallery wall without them looking out of place. The underwater sections can be particularly gorgeous, with one highlight being a cluster of fluorescent jellyfish that I swam through along the underside of my ship.There are some cool scripted moments throughout the nearly five hours it took me to complete Changing Tides, too – none of which I would want to spoil. They are grandiose in both scope and scale, and they do a good job of adding jabs of adrenaline to an otherwise slow-paced game. In fact, they’re also the only real source of tension you’ll find, as it felt like there was very little risk of anything going terribly wrong unless it was explicitly designed to do so this time around – a far cry from memories of my vehicle in Lone Sails constantly catching on fire. That can make it feel like you’re just going through the motions rather than fighting to stay moving at all.
Monark Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/monark-review|It’s always exciting to dive into a new JRPG from one of the genre's veterans at the helm. Monark comes to us from Kazunari Suzuki, best known for his work on the Megami Tensei and Shin Megami Tensei franchises, so it had a ton of potential. To its credit, it does introduce some fresh combat mechanics to an otherwise-straightforward tactical JRPG structure. But Monark continuously trips over itself elsewhere due to a disjointed story, static puzzles, and repetitive level design that made staying interested a lot harder than it could have been.Monark sets up a high-stakes story that takes place at Shin Mikado Academy, where a mysterious barrier looms over the school grounds and makes it impossible for anyone to leave. You take control of a Pactbearer: someone who has made a deal with an otherworldly daemon called a Monark that provides a unique power known as authority. The drawback, however, is that if this is used in the real world a mist will appear that will slowly drive people mad.This setup is engaging to start, but it never develops much tension. Most of the characters are interesting thanks to distinct personalities and solid voice performances to sell them: Ryotaro, for instance, is a fellow Pactbearer who has a confident sense of self and purpose yet has a tragic and grounded backstory. The cast has some fun little banter between expeditions in the True Student Council meeting room, too. Unfortunately, by the time there’s any real effort put toward fleshing out the characters you’ve already hit the climax of the story, making it far too little too late.Things begin with your traditional silent protagonist taking a psychology test to develop your ego – effectively a personality sheet detailing attributes which are based on your relationship to the Seven Deadly Sins. Depending on which sin you match best with, you are given a corresponding fiend who serves as a party member. Each fiend has a unique skill tree that focuses on different abilities such as attacking, healing, or causing status effects like poison or bleed, and that can have a big effect on your playstyle. This also ensures you’re never alone when it comes to combat, but it seems like a missed opportunity that these fiends don’t have any role outside of that, whether it be in the story or even just having a personality to interact with. They’re just tools for you to use at the end of the day.As you explore the school you will run into people who give out more psychology tests to further boost your ego. At Monark’s encouragement, I based my answers on what I would personally say (as opposed to a character I wanted to roleplay as) and I found most of the results and descriptions to be a relatively accurate description of my beliefs or feelings, whether that be a good or bad thing. For instance, after saying that I would choose to sing popular songs during karaoke, I was perceived as being someone who likes to stand out as much as possible; something that I find to be true as an extroverted person.While there are other ways to improve your stats, like collecting crystals placed around the school, having the psychological tests be the main factor in determining your ego and the order in which you unlock fiends helped make my Monark playthrough feel unique to me. My first was Gluttony – a fiend who focuses on lowering enemy stats while buffing themselves in return – but someone else might get Envy, which deals extra damage to enemies who are under a status effect, in which case things might get more difficult because you’d need to put more of your resources into healing items to compensate.But even with those personal touches, Monark’s greatest sin is repetition. Each section of the story is built around a different party member, but their objectives are always the same: find all three of a Pactbearer’s Ideals (giant crystals that make up their inner self) and destroy them. These Ideals are located in the Otherworld, a grim plane inhabited by daemons and where all of Monark’s battles take place. All three of the Ideals for each Pactbearer are based in the same building, so your goal is usually to reach the roof, clearing out an Ideal on each floor one at a time.Most of the time this involves solving mundane puzzles to find a key to unlock the room that contains the Ideal, and that involves either a combination safe, a computer login, or hints that are too vague to be useful. These are generally solved by looking through documents or student profiles on your phone, and that kind of sleuthing never felt satisfying. The level of repetition and lack of variety in Monark’s level design is what eventually made it feel more like a chore than a pleasure.Another idea that doesn’t really work out is the Madness mechanic, at least as it relates to the real world. Wherever an Ideal is located in the Otherworld, a mist appears in the corresponding real-world place. Anyone who walks through it – including you and your party – suffers mental damage and will eventually go Mad. This is represented by a Madness bar, and if it hits 100% you will collapse and reawaken in the school’s infirmary. While I got what Monark was trying to do here with trying to simulate the feeling of death looming over me, the fact is that there were never any real consequences to going Mad outside of battle so those moments feel like a waste of time. Especially since you can easily just fast-travel back to the beginning of the floor you were on when you pass out, it’s just a mild inconvenience.On the other hand, the turn-based battles you fight when you reach an Ideal is one of the few shining highlights of Monark, thanks to fun abilities, unique combat mechanics, and the best part: an excellent soundtrack during boss fights. Your Madness meter level transfers from the real world into battle, but here if a character hits 100% you’ll lose control of them and they’ll attack whoever is closest with dramatically increased power. That can be bad, but it also allows you to make some clever gambles if the situation is right, like isolating the rest of your units away so that the character who goes Mad can wipe out your enemies.On the opposite side of the spectrum is becoming Awakened, a state where you gain the same kind of power as in Madness but maintain full control of your actions. This power is obtained by using the Resolve skill or by being damaged in battle. Getting my Awakened meter up never felt like a priority, but if there is a round where you can’t hit an enemy it feels good that you can dedicate your turn to that instead of wasting it. Alternatively, each party member is able to defer their turn over to another character who has already gone, allowing them to act again – but in doing so their Madness increases more every time they are given an extra turn, which is a good way of limiting this powerful mechanic from being abused.It is a rarity, but you can also become Enlightened – when you become Mad and Awakened at the same time – allowing you to deal even greater damage without losing control. There were very few times where this happened in the more than 40 hours my playthrough took, and the big risk is that you must become Mad first to achieve it – but when the stars align, it’s a good feeling.All of Monark’s overlapping systems frequently gave me reason to pause and think about every action I took during combat, because everything you do comes with a cost. Art skills are physical in nature and take a chunk off of your health when used, while Authorities are magical and sap your sanity, increasing your Madness meter. Spending one or the other based on the situation is a meaningful tactical choice that brought another layer of depth to every battle.That being said, while Monark does have an impressive amount of different abilities and skills, the enemies never pushed me out of my comfort zone, so I was never forced to do anything other than my proven routine. In combat, the goal is always to approach an enemy from behind to deal extra damage and avoid a potential counter-attack. Additionally, having your allies near the enemy you are attacking will allow them to do a follow-up attack to deal extra damage. Nicely enough, the battlefield will show whether or not you will get an assist from an ally before you make your commitment. Once you figure the optimal way to position your party, you’d be foolish to approach a battle with any other method, and Monark never throws any curve balls to force your hand.In a move that works out to be a strength and a weakness, Monark doesn’t use the traditional grid-based battlefield we see in most tactical JRPGs – instead it allows for more freedom of movement with attacks and abilities based on circular and angular range. This is a refreshing take simply because it’s different, but there were several times where I was frustrated when my character was just a hair out of an attack’s range, making me miss the predictability of grid-based combat.After a battle has concluded you are given an amount of Spirit, which is the bread and butter of leveling your party. It costs a certain amount of Spirit to unlock or upgrade your characters’ abilities, and every time Spirit is spent in this way, that character levels up. (You can also use it to buy items, which is a nice way to encourage some tricky decisions about how to spend it.) It is a cool concept as it strays away from the experience bar where you often see similar games, but it becomes more of an annoyance once more members join (and often leave) the party.Each section of Monark focuses on a specific party member, but that character will leave the party once their chapter is over. Some will rejoin you later, but they won’t be boosted up to the level that you are now at, forcing you at times to grind specifically to level that one character up. This became more of a hassle further into the story, including one time when a character joined my party at level one while my main character was already in the mid-30s, leaving them useless until I spent the time (and Spirit) to improve them. Those stretches could have easily been avoided by making new party members come in at a base level closer to where you’re already at so playing through didn’t feel as much of a slog as it already was.
OlliOlli World Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/olliolli-world-review|The last OlliOlli game, 2015’s OlliOlli2: Welcome to Olliwood, was a breath of fresh air for the skating genre. Its stylised art, intense level design, and challenging trick system all helped it stand out. Seven years later, OlliOlli World has all those things going for it, too, but it also takes a huge step forward for the series by shifting into 3D, giving its skating a better sense of scale, speed, and dynamism without sacrificing the 2D perspective. At the same time, it builds significantly on Olliwood's technical gameplay by layering grabs, wall rides, and more atop the flip tricks, grinds, and manuals that were its foundation. And on top of all that, it goes out of its way to be more welcoming to players of all stripes, putting forth a host of changes that ensure just about anyone can have a good time without losing the fiercely high skill ceiling the series is known for.OlliOlli World's colourful, cartoony look and character-centric approach is the first thing that had me saying "ooo" – not just because it’s very pretty in its own right, but because it’s also very reminiscent of one of my favourite cartoon locations, Adventure Time's Kingdom of Ooo. Whether we're talking about your character's skate wizard guide Chiffon, the ice cream-headed denizens of Sunshine Valley, the smiling trees of Cloverbrook, or the many “Skate Godz” that you're tricking across Radlandia to meet, there are too many homages to miss the inspiration. It’s also similar in its effervescent and eccentric personality but thankfully doesn’t feel derivative, striking out on its own with a world populated by endearingly offbeat characters and a story that doesn't take itself seriously, yet is enjoyably earnest at the same time.That board would be ideal for shove(l) its. I'll see myself out.The approach certainly works for me, and the insane level of character customisation available helped me realise my own oddball character to add to the world. The breadth of options here is truly impressive, letting you adjust everything from your physique and clothes to (almost) every component of your skateboard and even some of your animations. The potential for unique creations is on display in a bunch of other ways as well, from seeing your friends on the loading screens to the rival system, which challenges you to beat other players' on each level... and even inserts that player's avatar into the pre-level dialogue to put a face to the name. (That's the character on the right in the screenshot below.)I see your moustache is as needlessly elaborate as mine...Oh, and how's this for an instant win for the character customisation system: You can try on any article of clothing and then revert back to what you were wearing before with the press of a button. No searching for the item to re-equip it again if you realise you made a mistake. Adding the equivalent of CTRL-Z to a character editor is so sensible it's almost painful, and makes testing out new looks a breeze.It's once you start skating, however, that the new presentation really starts to pop. The OlliOlli games have always felt fast and responsive, but World cranks this right up, running at a silky 60fps on PC, with super smooth character animations and a number of dynamic elements. Courses are full of absolutely thrilling sequences, whether that's flying along an undulating networks of rails, holding long, lazy wallrides where the camera pulls way back to show the impossible scale of the trick, or launching at speed out of a grind to fly low over an arching factory rooftop and seamlessly into another grind. Levels are no longer just left to right affairs but sweep back and forth, utilising quarter pipes and complex switchbacks. The terrain can be dense with paths to take and planes to skate on, even looping back around to where you started via “gnarly routes”. And it’s all set to a funky, laidback electronic soundtrack that helps make the skating feel even cooler.One minor additional note on the course design: while all the levels proper are fantastic, some of the side quests – like popping balloons or rotating in the air – are rather unexciting, which makes finding the characters that host these challenges less rewarding than it could have been. On the plus side, one side quest does see you try and outrace a bear riding an inflatable tube down a river, so that’s definitely a win.The trick mechanics are every bit as impressive as the levels. You're no longer just grinding, flip tricking, and spinning – with manuals joining them together, but also wall-riding, pulling and tweaking grabs, fitting in late tricks, and even negotiating stairs via firecrackers (so-called because of the rapid-fire bangs as you clack down each step). The latter is a low-key game-changer, as landing in a manual on a set of stairs flies in the face of everything I’ve learnt in skating games over the years, and makes extending combos via stair sets even more delicious than it might otherwise have been. And all these tricks are merely an analogue stick movement or button-press away.Hearing them described, it’s easy to imagine how OlliOlli World's mechanics could feel completely overwhelming. And yet, while it’s absolutely crammed with things to learn, it takes a very relaxed approach to introducing them all, with tutorials peppered steadily throughout the relatively modest campaign. It's not until the last of the five main areas, for instance, that you learn about late tricks and grind switching, and the gradual pace allows you to get used to each new addition as you incorporate them into your flow. Or not. Things like late tricks and the more advanced flip tricks and grinds are very much optional. In OlliOlli World you can skate the way you want to skate.By and large the controls do a fantastic job of putting a lot of options within easy reach, and I almost always felt that errors were my own fault – either bungling an input, not having enough momentum, or getting the timing on something wrong. That said, I had a few minor issues with wall rides – especially on moving walls – that felt a little outside my control, while the grind switching system occasionally had me ollying into a flip trick instead of shifting to a new grind. That could cause some small frustration here and there, but never enough to distract me for long.On that note, OlliOlli World is a far more forgiving game than its predecessors. If you're holding the left analogue stick in preparation for a flip trick, for instance, you can still push with your foot to build speed. There's no penalty for setting yourself too early. And if you're rotating in the air and land side on, you won't crash – you'll just get less points than if you completed the rotation and landed perfectly. You can even land side on in a manual and continue your combo... well, aside from on stairs, where you do actually have to land facing forwards or backwards. In general though, OlliOlli World isn't interested in punishing your mistakes, it's focused on rewarding your execution.And if you do bail it’s not as painful as it looks, because getting back up and skating again is instantaneous. A tap of a button will reset you back to the last checkpoint, while holding it for a second starts the whole run again. The checkpoint system itself takes a little getting used to though, as these spots aren’t just valuable for restarts but for banking points too, lest you lose them all through an overambitious combo. Once you’re bearing that in mind, there's very little friction in trying sections over and over. Well, aside from the friction of your virtual face repeatedly slamming into a virtual wall.There’s essentially no limit to how good you can get at OlliOlli 2. Just when you’ve mastered beating levels in a single combo and timing every single grind and manual perfectly, there are a host of other mechanics to integrate into your skating to bump that high score even further skyward. Why land in a boring old manual when you could revert into it? Why do a standard trick or grind when you could add a rotation or pull off something more complex with a longer – and riskier - animation? And hey, are you grind switching on every rail you can? It’s an impressively layered game, and does a great job of tapping deep into the skater psyche, where an obsession with tricks and effortless style intersect. - Cam Shea, March 3, 2015Read the full OlliOlli 2: Welcome to Olliwood ReviewGiven OlliOlli World is designed to be welcoming to players of all skill levels, just about anyone will be able to see everything Radlandia has to offer. Completing a level, after all, simply means getting to the end, not posting a particular score. This also means that there's a good chance that after you've played through everything you've really only taken your first step down the path towards becoming a true skate god. I'd only scratched the surface of all the challenges when I beat the final level, for instance, and it was truly satisfying going back to the beginning with a fuller understanding of the mechanics and thrashing my previous high scores, as well as beating the score challenges on every level... well, almost every level. Some of the numbers towards the end get pretty insane.Not pictured: the high scores I haven't beaten yet.In fact, to beat those late-game scores the only option is to complete each level in one combo, and even then it's easy to fall short. You may need to take all the alternate (and hardest) paths, incorporate the most difficult tricks and concentrate on timing each grind and manual perfectly to get there. OlliOlli World may not be hard to “complete,” but it’s excellent that there are punishingly difficult goals waiting for those who want to attempt them once they do.On top of chasing scores, each level also has three bespoke challenges from one of your travelling companions, the somewhat simple-minded magazine editor, Mike, and these incorporate collectables, alternate routes, specific trick spots, and more. Beating the game brings additional unlocks too, including two new modes. These are an online league system that sees skaters around the world vie for high scores on a daily leaderboard, as well as a basic but powerful random level generator that’s perfect for testing your skills in each of the main areas and sharing cool challenges with friends.
Dying Light 2 Stay Human Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/dying-light-2-stay-human-review|The weird, surreal tone of Dying Light 2 Stay Human combines very serious end-of-days themes with silly characters and minigames that have you smacking zombies off a skyscraper with a cricket bat is bizarre, but somehow it works extremely well. This zombie-smashing action game is a strong post-apocalyptic adventure with top-tier parkour movement, an expansive open world in which to put them to good use, and lots of great characters. What doesn’t work so well is how it combines a near-lethal case of bugs with a story centered around a protagonist so uninteresting that he’s all but (un)dead on arrival. I’m sure that when the developers at Techland set out to make this sequel they had no idea that they’d end up releasing a game about a global pandemic two years into a global pandemic, but it’s clear that trying to finish such an ambitious game under these conditions didn’t do it any favors.Sticking largely to the plan laid out by its surprise-hit predecessor in 2015, Dying Light 2 takes place in an excellent, highly explorable city where the rooftops are home to eccentric survivors who have become masters of parkour, scavenging, and chopping zombie heads off with assorted sporting equipment. By day the zombies swarms crowd into buildings to hide from the sun, and by night they pour into the streets in daunting masses, but the real tension comes from managing the terrifying meter that counts down to you transforming into a brainless shambler. Like nearly everyone else you’re infected with the zombie virus, and staying in near-constant contact with UV rays is the only thing delaying the inevitable. The ever-present need to recharge that meter – which will deplete in a matter of minutes if you’re inside a building away from the light – is an excellent addition to Dying Light’s moment-to-moment gameplay that keeps up the pressure on every step of your journey.During the night you have to be extremely deliberate with everything you do so you can make it back to a nearby oasis with UV lights to replenish your meter, like a diver with a limited oxygen supply. Do you risk looting every corner of a mission area or rush through and complete the main objective to mitigate danger? Should you take the time to sneak around to avoid conflict or would it be easier to press the attack and risk getting stabbed to reach a goal faster? Decisions like this layer on top of the action and give you something to think about beyond just splattering the nearest zombies and looting their corpses.The distinct feel to each part of the day-night cycle creates a balance in what types of things you’ll get up to: you’ll need to spend nights delving into abandoned subway stations, power plants, and hospitals to gather new weapons and crafting materials, completing missions along the way; by day you travel through the city and complete story missions outdoors unless you absolutely have to go inside.Your biggest asset in this – and the biggest highlight of Dying Light 2, by a mile – is its liberating and smooth parkour system, which improves upon the first game’s already impressive toolbox. You’ll leap from building to building, scale skyscrapers, and even swing around with a grappling hook with intuitive ease. Since the city streets are flooded with the undead by night and not-yet-dead bandits by day, sticking to rooftops quickly becomes one of the most intricate and high-stakes games of “The Floor is Lava” of all time – and it’s consistently entertaining even when you’re just running from point A to point B.As you level up, a repertoire of over 20 unlockable parkour skills allows you to navigate the city in new ways, including running on walls, sliding under tight spaces, and – if you’re really in a tight spot – springboarding off the heads of zombies to get away. Once I escaped from the top of a skyscraper by grabbing a zombie, jumping off the roof, and riding him all the way down until he softened my fall at the bottom. Another time I escaped a horde of zombies by wallrunning on the sides of skyscrapers as the dummies that pursued me leapt to their depths. There just aren’t many games that can hold a candle to the over-the-top, badass things you can pull off in Dying Light 2 .Later on there’s even a paraglider that makes rooftop travel possible in cityscapes where massive building height makes travel by foot difficult, and by that point it really felt like I had the freedom to go anywhere I wanted.Combat against humans and zombies alike can also be a lot of fun as you dropkick faces, dodge and parry attacks, and lop off arms, legs, and torsos. That said, when it comes to human opponents the AI leaves a lot of potential challenge on the table due to the fact that large groups don’t know how to gang up on you, allowing you to mostly parry and kill them off one at a time while their buddies sit back and help by shouting expletives at you. There also isn’t much variety in the types of human enemies you fight – just regular grunts and much beefier, slower enemies with big, two-handed weapons. Once you learn to parry and dodge the few attacks they have they’re never much of a threat, even on the hardest difficulty.I also didn’t feel all that imperiled while running around at night, even when I was being chased by tons of zombies. That was disappointing since the first Dying LIght had me sweating bullets anytime I had to go out after dark. Maybe it’s because Dying Light 2’s powerful skills and weapon options put those in the original Dying Light to shame, like modified weapons that can cause an explosion on a critical hit or light an enemy on fire for several seconds allowing you to pummel them to death while they’re defenseless. Or maybe it’s the fact that you can more easily over-level yourself in each area before moving to the next, making any new threats feel like pushovers. Maybe it’s a combination of those and other factors, but it wasn’t long before I could easily clear an entire warehouse of angry biters without breaking a sweat. That said, having a Howler sic an entire army of screaming zombies after you is still a stressful encounter, because they follow you everywhere you go (even on rooftops) and make going about your business normally nearly impossible, so they’re still a force to be reckoned with even if they rarely do you in.Working in its favor, though, even when combat isn’t challenging there are so many fun options for finding inventive ways to kill a whole room of bandits or bloodthirsty brain-eaters that it’s rarely a tedious undertaking. Throwing giant exploding gas tanks at groups of enemies, setting a dozen zombies on fire with a well-placed molotov cocktail, or just walking up to them one at a time and drop kicking them out of a window are just a few ways I rid myself of unwanted undead.The variety among zombies in Dying Light 2 is, thankfully, a lot better than it is with the human enemies. There’s your run-of-the-mill, slow-moving lurches which are about as useless as you’d expect; the recently turned, fast-moving “Virals” that leap at you and make you curse in front of your kids take a little more agility to deal with; “Howlers,” which scream like maniacs and draw attention from all nearby zombies need to be dealt with quickly, and many more freakish beasts – including some terrifying bosses that can require some effort to take down. They’re certainly not the most difficult bosses ever, of course.Speaking of killing things, it’s almost entirely done up close and personal. You won’t find any guns in Dying Light 2 and ranged weapons in general are fairly rare (and often impractical, since bows have a low rate of fire). So most of the time you'll be hacking away with a wide assortment of melee weapons that run the gamut from samurai swords to brass knuckles to a metal pipe with a tin can on the end of it. Weapons come to you as randomly generated loot out in the world or as purchases from vendors at social hubs, but either way they have a limited number of uses before they deteriorate and eventually break. However, if you don’t care for having your trusty weapons crumble to ash in your hands, know that Dying Light 2 doesn’t force it on you as often as, say, Breath of the Wild. In fact, the best weapons can be modded to improve their durability, deal more damage or apply status effects, and can even be repaired a limited number of times to extend their use. In my experience, by the time a weapon finally broke on me, odds are it had already become too low-level for me to want to use it anyway. Besides which, you’re constantly replenishing your selection with better stuff as well, so it’s unlikely you’ll ever find yourself empty handed when you’re fending off a horde.If your tolerance for bugs is low, I do not recommend jumping into Dying Light 2 on day one. Or day 10. Maybe day 30? I was able to play it to completion, but only barely: leading up to launch it is absolutely drowning in a sea of upsetting technical issues, whether it’s crashing (which happened to me dozens of times in my more than 80 hours with it on Xbox Series X and to others at IGN on PlayStation 5 and PC), all dialogue stopping during cutscenes, all audio being replaced with a loud screeching noise, getting locked out of quests because a character won’t let you talk to him or being unable to finish because the objective never spawned in, uneven framerates making me seasick, and too many more to list here. Most glitches are temporary annoyances or even amusing wonkiness, but some are more dire – one IGN editor playing on PS5 had his entire save file corrupted, leaving him with a never-ending loading screen and locking him out of his save pending an upcoming patch.Normally I expect a certain lack of polish in ambitious, open-world games, but even with my expectation for jankiness set to maximum, Dying Light 2 has been really, really rough. The longer I played, the more frequent the issues seemed to become; by the end I was having to quit out and reboot multiple times per hour, and breathed a huge sigh of relief when credits rolled and something hadn’t catastrophically broken my save file. In terms of stability issues and the danger of losing progress, it’s been considerably more severe than our experience with the PC version of Cyberpunk 2077, where the bugs we hit were mostly visual in nature. Techland is aware of all of this and is reportedly hard at work on patches to address it, but if history is any indication it’s going to take more than a few real-world day-night cycles to sort out this many issues.After chasing down so many threads for so many hours, it was deflating that the main plot of Dying Light 2 ended up feeling so weak despite an embarrassment of riches when it comes to great characters. Rosario Dawson’s Lawan, for example, is a fantastic antihero you get to hang out with a lot as she broods, drinks, and kills people indiscriminately with a crossbow. Then there’s the washed-up former hero Frank, the charming ladies’ man Hakon, and many, many more who left me with fun and dramatic moments to remember them by. The real issue is that Dying Light 2 just has us kinda meander from character to character without any cohesive story materializing between them, mostly because the one thing that would connect falls flat thanks to the character with the most screen time of all: Aiden Caldwell (that’s you).Aiden (like so many other Aidens) is what you’d get if you ordered a cardboard cutout of a generic protagonist on Amazon and got the cheap knock-off version instead. The tale of revenge he’s on is confusing, cliche, and borders on the nonsensical by the end. Without going into spoilers, the flashbacks to Aiden’s mysterious and tragedy-filled backstory sprinkled throughout the campaign left me wondering when the other shoe will drop… but it never did. It’s especially irritating because there are so many interesting stories and well-written characters throughout the campaign, but for some reason your character is one of the dullest people on one of the most humdrum adventures among them.Beginning as a furtive, desperate survival-horror experience, Dying Light gradually and gratifyingly evolves into a fast, hyper-violent celebration of vertical freedom and zombie destruction. Its main story is unspectacular, but the memorable side quests and sheer fun of exploring its world do a fantastic job of offsetting that, making Dying Light one of the most engrossing open-world games – zombie-infested or otherwise – I've played in a while. - Mikel Reparaz, February 2, 2015Read the full Dying Light reviewThat said, since Aiden is mostly along for the ride by involving himself in the lives of other characters, you spend a lot of your time hearing from people who are a lot more compelling. In the first act, for example, you’re caught in the middle of a dispute between two opposing factions involving an unsolved murder and suspicion on both sides. The egos and suspects you encounter along the way make taking sides a legitimately difficult choice between the lesser of two evils. It’s when Dying Light 2 thrusts you into the morally gray areas of this bleak future that the storytelling is at its best.Another disappointment is that most of the major decisions I made had little impact on the overall flow of the story, despite Dying Light 2 seemingly going out of its way to focus on your choices supposedly carrying weight. For example, I did everything in my power to piss off one of the city’s biggest and most powerful factions, even going so far as to unsubtly assassinate several of their leaders. I expected bigtime consequences… and yet, by the end of the story I still found myself working alongside them, even moments after I’d betrayed them for the third consecutive time. (Fool them once, shame on me. Fool them thrice…) For what it’s worth, they did give me a stern talking-to, but none of it had a whole lot of impact on where I ended up. Although my actions certainly changed some characters’ opinions of me and altered some story quests here and there, I ultimately still did all the same major story missions regardless of my decisions. Likewise, the ending felt like an inevitability, with only minor details changing along the way when I went back to check to see what might’ve gone differently.The biggest impact my free will had was that certain decisions led me to entirely different story quests and unlocked side quests that were specific to whichever faction I had sided with. Since I was such a heartless monster to one faction in particular, for example, someone in that faction almost got killed as a result of my shenanigans and was left comatose, which unlocked a mission for me to either cure him or take him out for good. (I had him killed, obviously – you don’t just leave a job half-done!) So it’s not that your decisions don’t have some immediate impact on how certain elements of the story plays out but, much like a Telltale game, you always end up in the same major events and don’t have much ability to change things in the grand scheme of the story. The results are simply typical and not very ambitious next to other games.Dying Light 2 also features a drop-in co-op mode (there’s no cross-platform play available, FYI) where up to four players can explore the city together and take on any activity, from story missions, to parkour minigames, to boss fights. It’s not only impressive that so much of the campaign can be enjoyed together, but it has just about every feature I could’ve asked for from a modern co-op game: There’s difficulty scaling to account from more people in the action, player-specific loot so you don’t fight with friends over weapon drops, and crucially, all progress, XP and story decisions carry across to your save file whether you’re the host or a guest.The downside, as seems to be a running theme with Dying Light 2, is that there are some additional bugs and technical issues introduced when playing co-op. In my time playing with friends, I suffered framerate issues and occasional lag that wasn’t present in single-player as well as infrequent disconnects and technical hitches. Overall it seems that Techland is rapidly deploying fixes to improve the experience, but co-op seems to run at the very least slightly worse than playing solo (which has plenty of issues to begin with).
Pokémon Legends: Arceus Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/pokemon-legends-arceus-review|Up until now, the "main series" Pokémon games have been strictly turn-based RPGs following a young protagonist on a quest to become a powerful Pokémon trainer. Each successive game has layered on a slate of new Pokémon to wrangle and, more recently, increasingly absurd and bloated mechanics to try and spice up a system that fundamentally remained unchanged. So at last, we have Legends: Arceus: the reinvention we asked for. Developer Game Freak has scrapped nearly everything I’ve come to expect from a typical Pokémon game — Gyms, random encounters, an Elite Four, trainer battles on the overworld, an evil team bent on world domination — and started over, rethinking even its most basic systems like Pokémon encounters and evolution from the ground up. A lot of this impressive transformation pays off, in that we get to interact with creatures that have never felt more alive in more dynamic ways, but Pokemon’s evolution is not yet complete, because the semi-open world around all of that feels like an unimpressive afterthought due to its bland emptiness.There are many and varied reasons why people come clamoring back to Pokemon year after year, but at the heart of it perhaps is the enjoyment derived from collecting a veritable army of interesting monsters, customizing and bonding with a specific team of powerful ones, and overcoming increasingly difficult challenges alongside them. In that regard, Legends: Arceus is still the Pokémon we know and love. But everything surrounding it — how you encounter these creatures and learn about them, how you fight against and alongside them, and the challenges you face together — has been flipped on its head.The way Legends: Arceus completely reimagines how you go about capturing and battling Pokémon is exemplary. Pokémon wander the overworld as they did in Let's Go and Sword and Shield's Wild Area, but instead of touching them to start every fight, here you have a buffet of options for how to approach each encounter. You could, for instance, toss a PokeBall right away for a capture attempt, or send out one of your Pokémon for a battle, or play it safer and use items like berries to distract them or mud balls to stun them. Some Pokémon will flee the second they see you, requiring you to stealthily hide in tall grass to get a good shot in. Others might attack you directly – your actual character, not your Pokémon – and you’ll have to dodge-roll or take a hit to your limited health bar. Granted, this doesn’t sound like a radical idea if you’ve ever played an action game, but for Pokemon RPGs this level of real-time action and peril is a new and welcome change that properly casts Pokemon as the actual, dangerous critters they are.Tied in with this are many of Legends: Arceus' more impressive touches, specifically in how wild Pokémon react to you or simply exist in the world as actual creatures with distinctive behavioral quirks. For instance, Nosepass will always fall asleep facing north, Sudowoodo freeze in a tree pose when they think you've spotted them, and Magikarp will stupidly flop right up to you because they have no idea you're packing a team of level-80 behemoths that could eat 10 of them in a single bite. Not every Pokémon has this level of personality, but the many that do feel real in a way Pokémon haven't in any other main series game, if not quite at the levels of liveliness we saw in Pokémon Snap.Even more thrilling are the occasional "space-time distortions" that appear across Legends: Arceus' five separate, self-contained biomes, bringing with them a bevy of rare and powerful Pokémon rapidly spawning in and out to create a scene of delightful chaos. And then there's the pure, delicious terror of running across a massive, red-eyed "alpha" Pokémon in the wild and having it chase you halfway across the map. Listen, you haven't really experienced Pokémon until a Chansey has blasted you straight into the ocean with a well-placed Hyper Beam. All of this makes the creatures of Hisui feel much more lively and dynamic than any previous game, though naturally it doesn’t approach the level of detail we see in something like Breath of the Wild.Battling, too, has received an overhaul that adds a new strategic layer to encounters, most noticeably with the addition of Strong and Agile attacks. If you've played any of the Bravely Default games, this will feel a bit familiar: aside from normal attacks, you can also opt to either sacrifice attack power to bring your turn back sooner with an Agile move, or give up future turns for an extra-powerful hit now. The system does fail in a couple ways, however: for one, most wild encounters are over so quickly that much of this isn't always worth bothering with. For another, the strategic element of sacrificing power for turns or turns for power doesn't work as well when either you or your opponent is switching Pokémon in and out constantly, forcing the turn order to shift and reset again and again. That makes it harder to strategize when you're getting your butt kicked by a powerful monster, and nigh impossible in trainer battles when you're both just one-shotting each other's Pokémon back and forth. On the whole it's a good idea, but the fights Legends: Arceus usually provides don't always allow it to shine.What works far better are the subtler changes to how different moves and status effects are used in battles. I won't go into all the details here, but if you've been a Pokémon fan for years, you'll immediately notice that moves like Rollout don't work the way you remember them, or that status effects like Sleep seem different from usual. The vast, vast majority of these changes are for the better, serving to tighten up battles and working well within the faster-paced, damage-heavy framework. Other major changes are noticeable outside of battle, too, with both evolving Pokémon and changing up their movesets now conveniently available directly from the menu as soon as certain requirements are met. No longer do you have to trek out to a Move Tutor and pay them in rare items to relearn older moves – every attack a Pokémon has ever learned is always available to swap in at any time outside of battle.Legends: Arceus also does away with series staples such as held items, breeding, eggs, and abilities, and doesn't have an equivalent to Mega Evolution Z-Moves, Gigantamaxing, or any of that other nonsense; it doesn't need it. It's not that Legends: Arceus isn't a complex game – far from it, in fact – but that complexity has been shifted into strategic approaches to encounters, capturing, and team building rather than an increasingly tall tower of systems layered atop one another.Pokémon Legends: Arceus takes place in the Pokémon world before many of the technologies and discoveries about Pokémon we’ve come to rely on in the main games were made. Your PokeDex, for instance, is styled as a hand-written notebook instead of a digital index. With no PCs to store Pokémon, you instead leave them in a pasture at Jubilife Village (though storage and withdrawal is still convenient and quick). Pokémon breeding and eggs hadn’t been discovered yet, so that system isn’t available; nor is it yet known that Pokémon can hold items. Trading Pokémon with others still exists both locally and online (though we didn’t get to test it), but Pokémon that would normally evolve by trading now evolve simply by using certain items you can find through normal play. The past was a simpler time, certainly, but in many ways it’s a lot more convenient!It doesn't hurt that Legends: Arceus is much more difficult than any Pokémon game in recent memory, especially when you combine the turn-based battle mechanics with the more action-oriented movement required to set them up in the first place. Wild Pokémon overall just seem to do more damage across the board, and even early on you can run across massively powerful Pokémon that will wreck your entire team and your character if you're not careful. In the first area, for instance, wandering down a particular path will put you right in the sights of a massive, red-eyed Rapidash at an unreasonably high level. You can run if you like, or try to catch it and risk losing, but there's no denying it's a sobering early moment for those who are used to Pokémon games being a cakewalk. This is a welcome removal of Pokemon's historical training wheels, especially for fans like me who have been craving more challenge from Pokémon for years. But it does lose a lot of the series' past accessibility as a result (and there’s no easy mode), which is worth keeping in mind given its wide-ranging, all-ages fanbase.There are plenty of good real-world reasons why Game Freak thought an overhaul was in order, but in the world of Legends: Arceus, battling and catching Pokémon is the way it is because you are, by and large, actively inventing both as you go. Rather than the usual plucky young pre-teen setting out on a gym challenge, you play as a modern-day teenager flung through time and space to a past version of the Sinnoh region from Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, known in its own time as Hisui. You're instructed by a mysterious voice to meet every Pokemon, and then dropped near a settlement called Jubilife Village, where Pokemon are known as terrifying creatures that humans must fear and avoid. This pleasantly surprising twist allows for a completely new perspective on the, frankly, quite frightening monsters we've been collecting for the last two decades, as you join an expedition team instructed to investigate the 242 different Pokémon that live in the region in an effort to help humans learn to live safely and peacefully alongside them.And what better way to do that than by compiling a PokeDex? Except this, too, is not the PokeDex we're familiar with. Beyond just catching every Pokémon once to complete the encyclopedia, you can only fully fill out an entry by completing a number of bonus tasks unique to each monster. Catching at least one is required, but other research tasks include things like battling a certain number, witnessing them using certain moves, encountering them in specific ways or at certain times, and more. For example, a Bidoof will be one of the first Pokemon you catch, but to fully research it you might catch multiple, evolve one into Bibarel, defeat several in battle, or finish a sidequest in Jubilife Village where a bunch of Bidoof are causing an annoyance. Such sidequests are available aplenty, and help the citizens of Jubilife work through their fears of the monsters they live alongside… and even learn to love them.If a good remake is defined by its loyalty to the original, then Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl are very good remakes indeed. They are Diamond and Pearl down to nearly every detail, looking nicer than ever before with a few small tweaks, most of which are pretty good ones. It leaves in some of the original’s roster flaws, but they’re largely forgivable if you’re like me and have some degree of nostalgia for a time when Pokémon’s scope was smaller. And yet, I can’t help but be disappointed that Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl weren’t braver in how they improved upon the originals in the same way other Pokémon remakes were, bringing even some now-historic improvements back to correct history’s mistakes. Of course, I still had a perfectly pleasant time revisiting both Sinnoh and the simultaneously simpler yet more challenging era of Pokémon that took place within it reminded me of a time when this series asked a bit more of us. - Rebeckah Valentine, November 19, 2021Read the full Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl ReviewFilling out the PokeDex improves your rank in the expedition team, which is required for certain progression milestones and rewards, but it's also a wonderfully fulfilling task on its own because it's so open-ended. I often found myself wandering off from the main story path into forests, caves, mountains, and rivers looking for new monsters to catalog, watching them move, and spending time getting to know them so I could discern how best to tackle each new research task. When combined with the new capturing and battling systems, Pokémon Legends: Arceus' main loop of visiting a new area, working on the PokeDex, turning in progress, and repeating proved fun and enticing for hours on end.But fun as it was to catch and catch and catch Pokémon, Legends: Arceus' brilliant new systems come with a major downside: they all exist within an ugly, empty world.Now that the Switch has multiple lovely, stylized open-world games with big grassy fields and roaming monsters, this particular world comes off as especially disappointing. With the singular exception of its pleasant skies, it's just not nice to look at, ever. Its five areas, which include the Obsidian Fieldlands, the Crimson Mirelands, and the Cobalt Coastlands often look depressingly similar to one another. Textures are ugly and repetitive, grass and trees are excessively simple and obvious, and the water effects are utterly bizarre, especially when Pokémon are swimming. Objects pop in and out at close range, and large wild Pokémon spotted in the distance run at an agonizingly slow framerate that makes them look like stop-motion animations. And to be very clear, none of this is a rarity – it looks like this constantly, in both docked and handheld mode (though handheld is a bit better), and often kills the immersion of running around what should be an exciting natural world stuffed with Pokémon.If anything, it looks worse the further you get: when you begin to unlock Pokémon that enable you to gallop, surf, and fly over the world rapidly, the visual disappointments – and the awkwardly placed, artificial barriers at the world's edges – become even more obvious and difficult to look past.What's more, while Arceus' overworld is massive in size, so much of it is functionally empty. Sure, the lore explains that the Hisui region is still largely uninhabited by humans, so it makes sense not to have tons of massive, bustling cities. But when I say empty, I mean empty, even of interesting natural phenomena or roadside curiosities. I cannot emphasize enough how much of this world is just long stretches of grass patches or bare, empty mountains covered in Geodudes, especially in the later areas. It's just all Pokémon, all the way down. There are a number of map-named places referencing towns or landmarks in Diamond and Pearl that are clearly intended to be their precursors but, aside from maybe having a few extra flowers or trees or slightly differently colored grass, there's little reason to really explore or appreciate them. Just catch your Pokémon and be on your way, nothing to see here.The handful of landmarks Hisui does have are frequently disappointing, too. So, so often in Legends: Arceus I saw what I thought might be a cool mountain cave or interesting ravine or island, only to find it inhabited by more of the same Combee and Buizels I'd been bumping into since I got to Hisui. A couple of small settlements parked around the region have absolutely nothing to offer beyond a sidequest or two – you can't even use them as camps to heal your team. Even the music that backs up your adventure is lackluster and oddly inconsistent, fading in and out at odd times and featuring a mix of calming Breath of the Wild-style piano melodies and energetic remixes of Diamond and Pearl route themes. Essentially, exploring and getting to know Hisui is entirely about cataloging its Pokémon – the region, world, music, and landscape itself is an underdressed, inelegant afterthought.Even worse, without interesting landmarks, Hisui is also entirely devoid of anything resembling dungeons, or even puzzles, really. There's one sort-of dungeon about 20 hours in with a couple of extremely basic shape-memorization puzzles, but then you never see anything like it again. Part of this is likely due to the fact that riding on Pokémon has entirely replaced the old system of "Hidden Machine" moves usable for both traveling and puzzle solving on the overworld. While I welcome not having to carry a Bidoof with me at all times to break rocks, Legends: Arceus feels like it lost a little too much of itself without cool ruins puzzles to solve or interesting spelunking trips. With no suitable replacement for the traditional gyms, Rocket hideouts, and the like, there's no meaningful build-up to major encounters and no moments of satisfaction that come from surviving a long excursion into a dangerous place with a powerful enemy at the end. I didn't realize how much adrenaline conquering something like a Victory Road really gave me until it was suddenly missing.What all this means is that what you're doing for almost the entirety of Legends: Arceus' first act is catching and battling, over and over again. And that system is strong enough that it does manage to keep things interesting most of the way, though admittedly after the first 20 or so hours of repetition I was starting to flag. Interspersed boss fights with powerful lord and lady Pokémon that actively mix up the action game mechanics of their battles help freshen things up, though I could have done with a few more actually challenging trainer battles than the story threw at me. But then I reached Legends: Arceus' ending…or should I say endings?When you see credits roll about 30 hours in, the “ending” you’ve seen is really more of an act one finale, leading directly into a robust second half with 20 or 30 additional hours of sidequests, battles, legendaries, and more. That on its own is great, and a lot of that extra content is pretty fun, too, including a seriously tough boss battle and some excellent legendary Pokémon hunts and fights that really make use of Legends: Arceus' overworld creature-catching and item-use mechanics for interesting, strategic encounters. In fact, they made me wish more of the earlier Pokémon encounters had forced me to make better use of my toolset for stealth and stunning – those felt like missed opportunities in hindsight.But one massive piece of Legends: Arceus' second half sucks: finishing it. The actual, for-real ending is gated behind two absolutely massive and frustrating collect-a-thons. One of the tasks is to collect 107 of an item scattered across all six zones, with absolutely no guide as to where any of them are beyond the number remaining in each area. The other task is, unsurprisingly, capturing every Pokémon available – a job made agonizing by the fact that many are extremely rare. At one point, I spent several hours doing the following: leaving Jubilife Village for a certain area, flying to the very specific spawn point of a Pokémon I needed, seeing it was not there, warping back to camp, going back to the village to reset the spawns, and repeating until I found what I needed. I similarly spent hours sitting on a mountaintop, waiting for a space-time-distortion to appear in hopes that it might, maybe, have the Pokémon I needed. And if I accidentally made any of these Pokémon faint or flee, too bad. Do it all over again.This is so, so far removed from the Pokémon fantasy I wanted to see the series evolve into. I understand that Pokémon has always had these kinds of obtuse, repetitive challenges for its rarest monsters (remember Feebas in Ruby and Sapphire?), but never have they been required to achieve a main story ending – not even back in the good ol' days where catching 'em all was still the slogan. And given the modern reinvention of the series we see here, this sort of tedious mandatory activity should’ve been the first thing to be discarded.If Legends: Arceus had hidden more of these rarer monsters behind puzzles or interesting sidequests or actual overworld mysteries, that would have been one thing. Instead, it's just a lot of waiting, repetition, and luck (and, for everyone else playing it post-launch, presumably online guides) that I found immensely discouraging despite the enticing proposition of, you know, actually getting some form of resolution to the plot established in the first five minutes. On the bright side, online and local trading will be available at launch, which may speed up this process for some, but that doesn’t change the annoying nature of being told to go out and find something that’s just not there to be found the vast majority of the time.So what awaits at the end of all this? I won't spoil it, but suffice to say it involves one admittedly fantastic, memorable boss battle, and then nothing. The story never really resolves. Multiple characters repeatedly hinted to have suspicious and interesting motives never explain who they are or what they're really up to. One particularly tragic character never even gets an acknowledgment that his unresolved story is actually pretty messed up for a Pokemon game, much less a happy ending (or any ending, really). Questions raised early on in Legends: Arceus are never answered sufficiently, and even when you get back to town, no one remarks on the feat you've just accomplished. Maybe it was my own fault for being led to believe that there was some greater story being told here beyond "catch 'em all." But after 64 hours, it was a wildly disappointing payoff for the work of finishing the longest main story a Pokemon game has ever had, even if the journey to get there was a lot of fun.
Windjammers 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/windjammers-2-review|Windjammers 2 answers the question: what do you get when you combine air hockey with a 2D fighting game? The result, as it turns out, is an absolute blast to play. Changing very little from the original Windjammers that came out on the NeoGeo 27 years ago, the sequel is simple, sweat-inducing, and extremely addictive. Even though it lacks a few key features you’d expect from something designed to be so highly competitive in this day and age and fumbles its attempt at telling any kind of story, Windjammers 2 is a more-than-worthy successor to the retro classic that came before it.At a glance, Windjammers 2 looks to be little more than a game of Pong – and in a lot of ways that’s not far off. You frantically move your character around your side of the screen, doing your best at deflecting the frisbee back towards your opponent and scoring points if you manage to snake it past their defenses. But this simple starting point is made a lot more complex by introducing an arsenal of diverse tactics and awesome mind games that draw heavily on the fighting game genre.Of course if you’ve played 1994’s Windjammers (which is available to this day on PlayStation and the Switch) then this concept should sound very familiar to you, because Windjammers 2 remains incredibly loyal to that design, with only a handful of gameplay tweaks, new characters, and improved graphics to distinguish it from the original. Given how few changes there are, it’s impressive how well the old formula holds up a quarter century later, and the small additions that have been added are all solid improvements. The ability to jump in the air and spike the disc down into your opponent’s court, for example, is particularly useful.The truly remarkable thing about Windjammers 2 is that any move made against you has a logical counter to it, so I never felt like I was the victim of unfair tactics or an exploit of some kind. If someone is staying back and defending their goal, you can use the drop shot to bunt the frisbee right over their goal and punish them for their babysitting. If someone makes a curve shot that veers just out of your reach you can use your power toss to knock it into the air, giving you time to recover it and mount a counter attack. Instead of raging, losing a match just made me bow my head and consider how I could respond better next time, and that’s the hallmark of an incredibly well-balanced meta.Almost as impressive is how Windjammers 2 manages to maintain much of its predecessor’s art style, which makes use of hand-drawn characters and a top-down perspective that somehow still shows a lot of each person. And this commitment to an old-school vibe certainly pays off with extremely expressive characters and over-the-top animations that made me feel like I was right in the middle of the action despite having a bird’s eye view.When it comes to gameplay improvements, the star of the show is the Super Meter which charges up a little every time you throw the disc. When it’s fully charged you can unleash a powerful disc throw that moves quickly and can be difficult to predict. Alternatively, you can use your full Super Meter to counter any attack being thrown at you and avoid what would have otherwise been points scored against you. It adds an element of danger and excitement as you see your own or your enemy’s meter flashing at the bottom of the screen and know something’s about to go down.There are also a few new characters that mix things up a bit, including Raposa, a skateboard-riding Brazilian kid who’s the fastest-moving character available, and Ho, a stoic warrior with a special ability that makes the disc do an anime-style vanishing dash in your direction. The new characters have actually become some of my favorites since their special abilities are usually more over-the-top and creative than the 6 characters from the original. Similarly, the new maps make for some unique experiences, like ones that are a bit wider or longer than the standard size and force you to adopt new strategies to win, or one particularly amusing stage where a point value for each scored goal is randomly selected via a slot machine-like gamble each volley.In other areas, though, it’s disappointing to see so few additions or updates have been made, especially when it comes to everything that isn’t gameplay. The biggest example is the omission of a spectator mode or a training mode, features that are quite common in highly competitive games nowadays and which would go a long way in supporting what is sure to be a passionate competitive community. There’s also no tutorial mode whatsoever, aside from an extremely vague “How to Play” manual that does very little to explain the many complexities of frisbee-tossing combat. I can understand wanting to remain loyal to the moment-to-moment gameplay, but a lot of the ecosystem surrounding it feels very outdated in a bad way. If Windjammers 2 wants to attract younger gamers in addition to the older set who remember the original, it could’ve done a lot more to welcome them in.Another missed opportunity is that Windjammers 2 has only three game modes – Arcade, Versus, and Online – and all of those are essentially the same mode for different purposes. Arcade serves as a solo campaign of sorts, though it amounts to little more than a tournament-style series of bouts before a very short epilogue sequence for each character that often left me with more questions than answers. It’s a little odd that a story was included at all, given how little effort is put into it. Unless you’re just trying to get some practice in against computer-controlled opponents, the juice really isn’t worth the squeeze with Arcade Mode, and it’s definitely the weakest of the bunch.Versus Mode gets straight to the point and lets you play one-off matches against computer players with custom rulesets or local human friends that you trust won’t throw you out the window when things get heated (because they very well might). It provides pretty much everything you’d expect, but there is one glaring omission: the ability to instantly play a rematch. Instead, you’re brought back to the character select screen and have to set up a new match all over again. I know that doesn’t sound like a big deal, but matches often end quickly enough that I found myself clicking through all the settings to get back to playing every couple of minutes, and that’s really irritating when your blood is running hot and you want to get back into a game so you can show your buddy Kevin that his victory was just beginner’s luck (not cool, Kevin).Finally, there’s the Online Mode, which allows you to finally play a game of anime frisbee with people from across the world wide web. It comes packaged with two matchmade playlists: Quick Match and Ranked Match, the former which just pits you against any available player and the latter matches you against similarly skilled players and gives you a chance to climb up or down the ranking ladder with your victories or defeats. The online mode works well enough but, at least on the Nintendo Switch where I played, wait times can be a bit long and frankly the online UI and overall experience is pretty clunky. That said, it works well enough to get the job done and I experienced minimal input lag in the online games I played, so it’s a good time.
Shovel Knight Pocket Dungeon Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/shovel-knight-pocket-dungeon-review|Shovel Knight is everywhere these days. He’s in fighting games, rhythm games, 3D platformers, 2D platformers, and so much more, but a puzzle game is certainly new for the blue-clad shovelrous knight. Enter Shovel Knight Pocket Dungeon, a wonderful spin-off of the Shovel Knight series that manages to successfully merge the characters, villains, and enemies of the classic 2D platformer with finely tuned puzzle and roguelite mechanics that make it hard to put down.Shovel Knight Pocket Dungeon is a block-matching-puzzle-adventure-roguelite, which I know sounds like I just reached into a bucket, pulled out a handful of unrelated genres, and mashed them together – but somehow developers Vine and Yacht Club Games managed to make this concoction work. It’s simple on the surface: you control Shovel Knight or one of 12 other playable characters and move them around a 8x8 grid in four directions, while blocks and a rogue’s gallery of Shovel Knight enemies drop from the heavens like tetrominos in Tetris. It’s all very simple and intuitive: You can clear enemies and blocks by moving into them to attack, but every time you make an attack you also take damage equal to that enemy’s offensive stat, with the key exception being if your attack is a killing blow on your target. All of this to the tune of an incredible soundtrack that consists almost entirely of modern arrangements of the classic Shovel Knight soundtrack, with a couple of awesome new tracks for the new knights as well.Where things get “puzzley” is when you attack an enemy that is adjacent to others of the same type: you only take damage from the one you’re hitting, but you deal damage to the whole chain, which lets you clear entire rows and columns of enemies in just a few strikes. Since you can only take so many attacks from individual enemies, it's paramount that you seek out these opportunities to clear large groups at once. Fortunately, if you start to run low on health, you can also find life restoring potions that will restore two hearts a piece.It’s an incredibly well-crafted design for a puzzle game and facilitates a ton of different approaches to each level. You could play it slow and focus on optimizing your chains while being extra cautious about your life, even though you run the risk of taking too long and letting the stack of enemies fill up to an unmanageable level; or you could play it fast and focus on smaller chains done quickly, at the risk of making a careless mistake by bumping into an enemy you don’t have the HP to deal with.In general, playing it safe will get you far, but you are rewarded for keeping your pace up, too. There’s a gem meter that fills while you’re clearing enemies and obstacles and rapidly depletes when you’re not. Filling up the gem meter will grant you a multiplier that will increase the amount of gems you collect by defeating enemies, and those gems can be spent in a shop on powerful relics with effects that range from increasing your life to having each of your attacks poison enemies or making you immune to hazards like slime, fire, and ice.But Pocket Dungeon’s real genius lies in its variety of playable characters. Picking a new knight is much more than just a cosmetic choice – it can completely change the rules. For instance, Specter Knight takes damage when he hits a potion and can only restore health by defeating enemies; Propeller Knight is incredibly good when it comes to defeating lone foes but is actively punished when he tries to chain them together; and my personal favorite, Black Knight, starts with a measly three HP but has the incredibly powerful special ability to turn his gem meter into extra attack power. That means he’s able to kill most enemies in just one hit if you’re able to get your gem meter up to x2 or x3, but the catch is that he loses that buff and is back to just dealing one damage as soon as you use a potion. That element of high-risk, high-reward, and fast paced play is right up my alley.In just about every case, each of the 12 knights has a completely distinct style of play. Even about 20 hours in, I’m still going back and attempting to reach the end of a run with every knight at least once – not out of a sense of completion, but because each playthrough is fun in its own way and requires a unique mastery of that specific knight’s special skills and quirks.In Pocket Dungeon’s main adventure mode you work your way through a series of 10 levels, nearly all of which are based on levels from the original Shovel Knight and feature the same enemies you’d normally encounter there. The Plains is stacked with Beetos, Blorbs, and Boneclangs; the Iron Whale is home to the durable Hermittacks; and the Clockwork Tower is full of conveyor belts and Electrodents that will quickly make you second guess attacking them twice in succession.There’s an excellent variety of enemies that really keep your synapses firing as you carefully consider how much damage each enemy will do, what their response will be once you attack them, and whether or not you have the health needed to defeat them before they take you out. It can be fairly brutal starting out when you don’t know all their nuances, but once you’re a couple of runs deep and you start to immediately recognize what each of them does, it’s extremely satisfying to just act without having to sit next to an enemy and read their description.I still kept coming back to Adventure Mode even with these slight disappointments, though, because unlocking new characters by first beating them as bosses was always a thrill, and the “true ending” was a fun challenge to strive for.Pocket Dungeon also has a Daily Challenge that gives you one chance per day to set a high score with a particular character – but more substantially, it has a fun versus mode that lets you go toe-to-toe against either the challenging AI or a friend via local multiplayer. It’s structured very similarly to adventure mode in that, even though you’re competing against a friend and dropping garbage blocks on them by clearing chains, you’re also moving through different levels and buying a relic using your gems in between them. It’s such a fun mode that I can’t help but feel a little disappointed that it doesn’t have online play, or at the very least a more structured gauntlet mode tied to it that lets you challenge the whole roster in increasingly difficult fights.
Animal Crossing: New Horizons - Happy Home Paradise Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/animal-crossing-new-horizons-happy-home-paradise-review|Friday morning, I woke up feeling productive. I went to work, decided to build my favorite resident a vacation home, and they asked me for a specific aesthetic and some furniture they would love in their house. It took me a few hours, but the finished design combined with their smile made it all worth it. It was rewarding and relaxing – probably because I was not actually designing someone’s vacation home in real life, but Animal Crossing: New Horizons’ Happy Home Paradise DLC allowed me to live out a life where I spent my time on a tropical paradise helping people build the vacation homes of their dreams.New Horizon’s first (and final) paid DLC lets you visit a resort archipelago to work at Paradise Planning, a company where you help villagers buy their very own vacation homes. It’s a concept that will be very familiar to anyone who has played Happy Home Designer, an Animal Crossing spin-off released on the 3DS in 2015. You’re tasked with recruiting vacationers that are interested in purchasing a vacation home, picking out a plot of land, and then building a house based on specific themes and items the villager wants it to contain.While the actual building and decorating is relatively straightforward, the simple instructions each villager gives you provide a lot of free reign and creativity, which I found to be overwhelming and has encouraged me to think outside the box when decorating in New Horizons. It’s fun to design something outside of your own home or island, tapping into my creativity in a way that New Horizons previously did not explore. You are given your pick of a handful of islands for where a villager’s vacation home will be built too – each has different features and sometimes different seasons that make the space stand out from others. Picking the plot of land you want to use on that island also allows you to customize the home’s exterior and interior with decorations. That much freedom could be a little overwhelming, but there is an option to see some relevant items that might help fit the vision of the client’s dream vacation home in case you’re craving a little more direction. Happy Home Paradise also provides you with an option later on where you can build a client’s house with no brief at all, choosing everything from its items to the name of their home.After a bit of playing, you can also unlock roommates, where two clients share a vacation home. Pairing villagers as roommates can be very useful if you have clients that want vacation homes with similar themes. Instead of each having their own home, why not build one and let them cohabitate? This is great as well if you just really want an excuse to finally have those two villagers you pretend are dating to live together.However, if you expect to have your entire furniture catalog available to you right away, you are going to be disappointed. Happy Home Paradise makes more furniture available to you as you progress, but it can be a slow burn. That means there’s a good chance most of the decorations and designs you want to use for your client’s homes will not be available at the time of the assignment. Fortunately, there is an option to remodel previous homes you’ve decorated, which encouraged me to revisit and improve my previous projects as I continued to expand my business.The more clients Paradise Planning gains, the more stuff you unlock; outside of furniture, unlockables also include new customization features such as pillars, adding a second floor to a client’s house, plus soundscapes to add a constant ambient sound into a room. My personal favorite was your ability to resize a room, allowing you to set a room as big as 10x10 or as small as 4x4.Outside of recruiting clients who are visiting the archipelago, you also eventually unlock the ability to call in specific villagers using Animal Crossing’s extensive collection of Amiibo cards. You can invite villagers from your own island too, though it requires a bit of bribery by giving them Souvenir Chocolates, which are exclusively sold at the Paradise Planning Office.Speaking of buying stuff, you do get paid for your hard work with the Paradise Planning team. Instead of bells, the traditional currency used in Animal Crossing, Lottie pays you in Poki, which can only be spent on items you buy when visiting the archipelago. For example, you can buy food at the Cafe, clothes at the Apparel Shop, or you can use that Poki to expand your catalog by talking to Wardell, the reserved, yet kind Manatee running the Paradise Planning gift shop. Similar to Nook’s Cranny, five items will be on display with the items switched on a daily basis. While these items are obtainable in the base game, I found the newer items introduced in update 2.0 easier to obtain through Wardell. Even better? After spending a certain amount of Poki at the gift shop, Wardell will allow you to order any items used during your time designing homes for Paradise Planning, and it will ship to your house the following day — this includes all color variations. Making it a lot easier to catalog furniture in New Horizons.As you complete more houses your Poki salary increases as well, but I found the starting Poki salary to be quite generous, allowing me to buy most of the stuff in Wardell’s gift shop pretty quickly. Once you begin opening up others facilities on the archipelago like the apparel shop, however, the salary increase balances out somewhat with the other facilities that accept the payment.If you are really not a fan of Poki, the Paradise Planning office has a currency exchange allowing you to convert your Poki into Bells. Outside of the Souvenir Chocolates, it seems like the items sold on the archipelago are not exclusively available through Poki based on what I’ve seen being sold in Nook’s Cranny. It certainly makes it easier to catalog all the new items introduced as part of the new DLC and the base game’s 2.0 update, which added lots of options whether you buy the Happy Home Paradise expansion or not.The other island facilities you can open up range from a school, a restaurant, and even a hospital, all of which are vacant buildings when you start the DLC. As you build up your clientele for Paradise Planning, Lottie, the head of the business, will tap you into customizing these facilities so that clients can visit. This includes naming each facility and hiring staff to work there. And just like Wardell’s gift shop, every facility accepts Poki as a form of payment.The facilities are by far my favorite thing about happy Home Paradise. You only have but so much space to use on your actual island, and this feels like you suddenly have an entirely new map to call your own. If you enjoy making little skits or photographs on Harv’s Island, you will enjoy the community-like atmosphere that comes when you begin to open up these facilities and see characters using these spaces. It really brings a lot more interactivity and makes the space feel more active than your own island, which maxes out at 10 villagers with most of the NPCs relegated to specific spots.The Legend of Zelda, Pokemon, and Super Mario each found new life on the Nintendo Switch, and following those games in kind is Animal Crossing: New Horizons: An expanded, polished, next-generation reboot of a classic Nintendo game. Perhaps most importantly, like Breath of the Wild and Super Mario Odyssey, Animal Crossing: New Horizons is full of surprises. I cannot wait to see what's to come: Seeing cool custom islands from the community, special events, season changes. It took too long to get to the most exciting part of my island renovation (until I cheated), but now that all of New Horizons is spread before me, I have plenty to do, big plans for my island, and so much to look forward to. - Samuel Claiborn, March 16, 2020Read the Animal Crossing: New Horizons ReviewWhile it is a similarly slow burn to unlock all of the facilities, yet this method of unlocking feels equally rewarding as you can physically see the growth Paradise Planning and the archipelago experience the more you design vacation homes. You start off at Paradise Planning as a small, unknown business that has a few stragglers coming by to vacation, and it’s fun to work your way up into a place that everyone wants to visit. It’s very much reminiscent of working hard to build my island up to 5-Stars in the base game. Though I wish you had the choice of where you placed facilities or the order in which you unlock them – I find it much more practical to open up a hospital or a cafe before the school, which is the first facility that you unlock.All the new skills and tricks you learn in the archipelago extend to your main island as well. You can now offer to remodel your villager’s homes, and (with the exception of the room-size adjustment tool) can redecorate or give some of their furniture a nice shine. While it’s disappointing that you can’t use the room-size tool on the main island, the option to even remodel a villager’s home is a nice touch. Especially if you, like me, managed to get your favorite villager early, and instead of getting their actual house, they got a default house that varies based on their personality. In my case, Drago, one of my favorite villagers whose house normally has a lot of cool Imperial-themed decor, instead had the default Lazy villager house with a log-cabin like interior with dirt flooring. Being able to finally redecorate his home without having to kick him out and bringing him back by way of Amiibo saves a lot of headache on my end.
Nerf Legends Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/nerf-legends-review|There was a time in the early 2000s when you could reach into the bottom of a cereal box and occasionally pull out an entertainingly bad, low budget video game. Nerf Legends feels like it was supposed to be in one of those boxes, but was left out because it's not safe to package something this harmful to your health alongside someone’s breakfast. With atrocious gunplay, joyless puzzles, cringey writing, painful bugs, and legitimately broken multiplayer, this half baked disaster has absolutely nothing of interest to offer – even to those just looking for a nostalgic laugh. It’s a sloppy, tragic first-person shooter, and one of the worst games I’ve played in a long time.Arming you with an array of foam dart firing Nerf Blasters, the six-hour barebones story mode in Nerf Legends sends you on a strange and low stakes quest to defeat five different Nerf masters and secure your place among them. You don’t learn who any of the Nerf masters are and there isn’t some greater reason you’re trying to become a Nerf legend, with none of the childlike silliness a story like this could have so easily embraced. Instead you’re just told you need to do it and then a robot makes corny jokes at you along the way, as if playing through each level wasn’t bad enough on its own.Each new area has you running through three or four repetitive obstacle courses where you fight swarms of cliche robotic enemies and solve braindead puzzles before you fight a samey boss and move on to the next gauntlet. Chief among the many gameplay atrocities you’ll endure is the godawful gunplay, which is an unsatisfying, frustrating, and buggy pile of mistakes. For one, shooting its Nerf guns just feels bad. Every weapon is inaccurate, wiggles around as you fire it, and needs to be reloaded painfully slowly every couple of seconds – so actually kinda close to using real Nerf guns. It also doesn’t feel good to fire them as your bullets are hard to see, barely make a noise as they leave your weapon, and have hardly any recognizable impact when they hit what you’re firing at unless you deal a killing blow, at which point the enemy explodes into pieces.When I played with Nerf guns as a kid, I’d always imagined larger-than-life explosions emanating from my weapons, doing exaggerated damage to anything I aimed at – the look and feel of a Nerf gun plays into that fantasy when you hold one in your hands. Instead, Nerf Legends finds a way to suck all the fun and fantasy out of Nerf by making them all feel weak, unwieldy, and incredibly mundane, and that’s a missed opportunity that only grew to disappoint me more and more the longer I played.What’s even worse is that, for whatever reason, attacking enemies with a melee hit is actually one of the most efficient ways to take them out. It actually one-hit kills most robots and is oftentimes easier than using the guns since you don’t have to deal with frustrating reload times. Because that’s what I remember most fondly from those childhood Nerf fights with my brothers: all the melee attacks. Brilliant!Believe it or not, that mess of unsatisfying gunplay is actually when it’s working as intended, because it regularly doesn’t. Guns will randomly lock up, not letting you fire bullets or reload until you swap weapons and swap back, which is incredibly frustrating. And sometimes you lose the ability to turn around or aim your weapons where you want with an odd glitch that drags your crosshair to one corner or another like a ghost has its thumb jammed up against your joystick. When this happened the only solution I found to fix it was killing myself and respawning. Unfortunately, that creates even more issues, because dying tends to break everything else.That’s right! Sometimes you’ll die and your character will just never respawn – instead you’ll find yourself stuck on an eternal kill cam until you quit to the main menu or reboot, which causes you to lose all progress for that level. Normally dying is a fairly regular, low stakes occurrence that results in an immediate respawn and practically no negative repercussions. But in the 10 or so times where dying lost me 20 minutes of progress due to this bug, I had to turn off my console and walk it off.The enemies you fight in each level are one of the more upsetting aspects of this Nerf misadventure too, as you fight the same handful of robot creatures over and over again and exactly none of them are interesting. Most enemies are little robot spiders or humanoids that pepper you with bullets while waddling around waiting to be killed. Occasionally you’ll find a big robo-scorpion or giant mecha that’s easier to kill if you aim for glowing weak spots, but the novelty of those fights wears off after their first appearance and you’ll see a whole lot of them as the levels go by.There are also lots of puzzles, though I’m using the term “puzzles” extremely loosely here. Most sections amount to standing in an area and fighting unlimited waves of enemies until a timer counts down or finding giant red buttons and shooting them with your gun to open a door. Hunting for buttons is actually an enormous part of what you spend your time doing in Nerf Legends, as almost every area has a big red forcefield that wants you to find three to five buttons in the immediate area before moving on. They’re completely pointless searches that add nothing except to delay your advance through the level, like the developers are charging you by the hour or something. I get that this is a Nerf game that’s probably designed for kids, but if stuff like Minecraft and Roblox are any indication, it’s hard to imagine any child who can hold a controller finding these puzzles even remotely compelling.Did I mention that Nerf Legends has some of the worst sound design I’ve ever heard? Because, good lord are you in for an auditory nightmare. The music consists almost exclusively of repetitive guitar solos while enemies beep and boop at you and the speaking characters haunt you with cringe-worthy performances. Whenever you have less than 50% of your health, which happens regularly, you hear a loud heartbeat that doesn’t go away until you heal. I get it, guys! I’m low on health!And worst of all: every single time you pick up a healing item, which happens constantly, you hear a loud beeping noise no fewer than four times. Four! It’s like getting punched in the ears four times every couple of seconds. It’s so irritating I actually preferred to just not pick up healing items or even let myself die sometimes because the beeping doesn’t happen when you respawn. It’s that annoying. Unfortunately, if you choose not to heal to avoid the beep, you get the heartbeat sound, so you can choose between your preferred version of hell.There are also boss fights, which serve as skill checks before you can advance to the next part of the campaign, but they do practically nothing to break up the persistent monotony. Each fight has you enter the ring with a humanoid that you’ve gotta beat three times before they kill you three times, and they are the only levels you can actually fail and have to start again. Unfortunately, with the exception of the final boss who does some barely interesting ninja moves like cloning copies of himself, these boss encounters do nothing to separate themselves from normal combat. The boss wanders around and shoots at you, you shoot back until they die, and it’s all over in a couple minutes. And, of course, all the issues with gunplay still apply to these battles, only with slightly higher stakes.Nerf Legends also has a multiplayer mode, or to be more precise, it doesn’t have one. That’s because the PvP it has literally doesn’t work. And when I say literally, I mean it genuinely is not functional. If you try to access the multiplayer mode, most of the time it tells you that you aren’t connected to the internet and locks you out entirely. When that doesn’t happen, it either tells you that no lobbies exist for you to join (presumably because no one else is playing) or asks you to make your own public lobby and wait for others to join. I tried to enter a multiplayer match for several hours a day for the better part of a week at different times of day and wasn’t able to play a single match. So far as I can tell from the reports of others online as well, there’s just no way to get multiplayer to work currently – but let’s be honest, we probably all dodged a foam dart there anyway.A complete lack of functional multiplayer, not respawning upon death, and guns not working correctly aren’t the only bugs you’ll find in this foam-covered catastrophe either. Not by a long shot! I got hard crashes to the Xbox dashboard, cutscenes that start in the middle for some reason, lip-syncing for characters that’s several seconds out of sync, enemies floating in the air when they aren’t supposed to, and much more. And don’t even get me started on the zipline system, which stalls you in the air for a second every time you attach yourself to one in the least smooth way possible. Doing so often causes a litany of its own issues, like not being able to move your character once you’ve detached or never being able to change your weapon for the rest of the level after using a zipline. I got so used to zip lines causing issues that seeing those yellow lines in the distance gave me anxiety at what fresh hell I was about to encounter.
Ruined King: A League of Legends Story Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/ruined-king-a-league-of-legends-story-review|Airship Syndicate’s work on Ruined King: A League of Legends Story weaves a wonderful tale that is primed to capture League of legends fans new and old. Blending the design ideas of its previous turn-based RPG, Battle Chasers: Nightwar, with LoL’s lore, it brings together a handful of favorite characters and gives them room to grow over the course of a lengthy and well-paced campaign. While some bugs slowed me down, a compelling story, gorgeous graphic novel-style art, modest character development, and versatile combat kept me entertained as I finally got to experience the world of Runeterra from a different perspective.Riot has spent the last decade creating diverse, unique, and memorable characters for its MOBA, but until recently they’ve been showcased mainly through video shorts. All that changed in November 2021, first with Netflix’s brilliant animated series Arcane, and now Ruined King and its vast amount of dialogue and backstory, fans like myself can dive far deeper into what makes at least a small portion of the 157-character roster so special. Coming away from this adventure, I found myself more invested in characters I previously knew but had sidelined.Ruined King’s plot centers around the impending awakening of King Viego at the hands – and hook – of Thresh, who plots to take over the world of Runeterra with the next Harrowing (a corrupting force that wreaks havoc on the world, claiming the souls of all who perish within for eternity) and harvest more souls to torment. The heroes and villains play the roles they need to move the average “stop the villain from destroying the world” story along, and while I found it predictable, the execution is still enjoyable thanks to the strong voice work of industry staples like Matt Mercer, Laura Bailey, Liam O’Brien, and others who reprise their respective roles from League of Legends. It added yet another level of authenticity and charm that pulled me in from the very beginning.Ahri, Braum, Illaoi, Miss Fortune, Pyke, and Yasuo are each on journeys that resourcefully intertwine and unfold, depicted in a gorgeous graphic novel art style across my roughly 30-hour main campaign playthrough (and an extra five to 10 hours to finish side quests like bounties or fishing to obtain components to craft legendary weapons). Characters in my party were challenged by their own relatable yet all-too-familiar trials of vengeance, acceptance, and self-discovery that foster growth within them. It was neat to see more of them, but I would have loved to see them dive deeper into certain people; Yasuo’s arc is concluded with a singular battle that heals his trauma and sets him on a more purposeful path and it’s hardly mentioned afterward, making it feel a bit rushed.The main story keeps everyone focused on the main objective and did a great job of keeping me invested. Most of my favorite moments came from conversations over a meal in cutscenes that accompany the scarcely placed rest points and give breathing room between a dungeon of enemies and the boss at the end. However, it was sometimes too much of a good thing; I wished there had been more rest points to split up the conversations instead of packing as many as four into one, plus I wouldn’t have minded more frequent auto-saves.While the main story is enjoyable without any prior knowledge of the LoL universe, many of the side conversations involve characters telling stories grounded in their world by previously established lore. Anyone who has read Yasuo’s biography or watched the Kin of the Stained Blade will know his past and what haunts him and causes his hesitation in forging bonds with others, but it was the emotional evolution of him engaging with other characters, like the ever-jovial Braum, that became the driving force in captivating me in nearly every conversation.The prologue starts things off with an enjoyable series of fast-paced in-battle tutorials as the Swashbuckling Miss Fortune fights off a mysterious black mist that harkens back to the previous Harrowings while teaching you just a fraction of the strategic turn-based combat mechanics. What makes Ruined King’s battle system interesting and versatile is how its Speed, Balanced, and Power attack types play out on the initiative bar timeline, and the counters to each. Casting Miss Fortunes’ “Guns Blazing” ability in the Power lane slows her down as she prepares to launch a heavy attack but pushes her allies forward in the turn order, giving them another chance to attack or defend before the enemies get to move while increasing her own evasion stat. Meanwhile, Speed casting Ahri’s Spirit Mend will heal and cleanse two debuffs from an ally or revive them if they are already KO’d.Another layer is added with wildcards, boons, and hazards, that help or hinder via healing, poison, or temporary stat boosts. These mechanics continue to evolve with new ideas introduced at an unhurried pace until roughly the midway point of the main story, which is around the time you complete your party. From that point on it’s more about demonstrating your level of mastery of the systems, such as finishing an enemy off in 10 hits or less to prevent them from self-destructing and dealing massive damage or using a Power-based attack to knock an enemy out of their defensive stance, creating a window to defeat them before they regain their footing. I would’ve preferred to get to that point a little sooner, though, because in the early hours I felt ready to move on to the next concept before Ruined King was ready to teach it to me.My other issue with combat is the default battle speed: sure, it gives you more time to enjoy cute animations like Braum’s Poro Snack and vicious ones like Pyke's ultimate, Reaper – but their novelty wore off quickly. After watching each character's arsenal of 12 unique moves (many of which originate from League of Legends) half a dozen times, I was extremely grateful for the ability to double the battle speed for the rest of the campaign and immediately found myself enjoying combat more.Living ForgeAcross the journey, you acquire tons of materials like gunpowder, leather straps, and essence that enable you to enchant your items with valuable upgrades like life steal, reduced casting time for abilities, or pure stat increases. Using this system isn’t necessary on the lower difficulty levels, but becomes extremely valuable as you progress on the higher ones. This, coupled with the mix-and-match ability and rune upgrade system, gives you an extreme amount of control over how your characters’ stats shake out and what role they perform in battle, such as giving Illaoi a secondary role as a healer or building Miss Fortune as a support to simultaneously buff allies and debuff enemies. Using that setup enabled me to have Yasuo deal the damage with a near 100% critical ratio. There is a finite amount of skill points available by the time you max out at level 30, but what’s great is you can reallocate them for free, and overwrite upgrades on a weapon or armor for a reasonable cost of materials. This let me experiment with all the recipes, such as adding a shield to my tank whenever they got hit, or adding health regeneration after combat, which greatly reduced the number of consumable potions I needed to use between battles.Against all odds, Arcane delivers a killing blow to the idea that video games cannot be masterfully adapted into other mediums, with compelling characters, an endearing story, and fascinating lore and worldbuilding, as well as striking visuals that break new ground for what is possible in TV animation. Like Into the Spider-Verse, we’ll be talking about Arcane as a classic and a standard-setter for years to come. – Rafael Motamayor November 20, 2021Read the full Arcane Season 1 reviewRuined King isn’t going to ruin a lot of experienced RPG players with its difficulty, though. My playthrough on Heroic (the hardest difficulty) only slowed me down marginally compared to my time spent on the lower difficulty options, since upgrading and enchanting abilities and characters are efficient and effortless ways to gain the upper hand. Most notably, late-game enemies like the Guardian Prototype’s HP scaled from 16K on Story mode up to 36K on Heroic. Despite having more HP to deplete, itemizing and upgrading Illaoi to simultaneously tank and heal, Ahri to heal while dealing damage, and Pyke to add absurd amounts of debuffs with his damage ended most battles by the enemies second or third turn. In the rarest occasions where I did lose a battle, it was at the hands of a new enemy specifically made to test my mastery of a new concept that had been recently introduced, such as Wisp Mothers who could one-shot any party member with their Nightmare ability if you don’t take them down quickly, or bosses with ultimate abilities that could blast away 80% of my HP if specific debuffs weren’t removed in time.However, if you’re new to RPGs and just want to enjoy the story without beating your head against a tougher fight, Story Mode allows you to skip any battle, including bosses, while still reaping the benefits in crafting materials and XP.Ruined King hits its stride in the latter half, especially as party dynamics are challenged regularly to teach the value of synergy when fighting certain enemies. During a trip to The Shadow Isles, I encountered the extremely deadly Mistwalker Executioners that would use their Guillotine attack to one-shot lower HP allies if I failed to use a tank character like Braum to taunt and absorb the hit with his shields. Meanwhile, corrupted assassins like “Pain Harvesters” used Harvest Pain to remove all debuffs on its allies and grant itself a 10% damage buff per stack; this encouraged me to either kill him first or avoid using attacks that cause debuffs if I had other options, like Wisp Mothers.While about 90% of games in League of Legends take place in a single location, I hoped Ruined King would take us on a more expansive tour of the world. Based on trailers and the opening sequence, I knew I would visit the Shadow Isles – home to Thresh, Hecarim, Viego, and others – and that got my hopes up for the chance of seeing places like Ionia, Piltover, or Noxus. But even after spending the first half dozen hours in Bilgewater and gaining access to my ship, that dream never came to fruition. The majority of the story splits its time between Bilgewater and The Shadow Isles, and while there are dungeons like the Purification Temple and Windrake Isle that break up the visual monotony, even they are limited in diversity. Windrake Isle starts out full of vibrant emerald greens, oranges, and reds while on the surface but upon entering the three-room dungeon it immediately reverts back to the muted blue and green color palette seen in the Purification Temple and Bhuru Temple.Most locations do have plenty to explore, at least, and are inhabited with standard NPCs, enemies, optional quests, fishing spots, bounties to hunt, and puzzles to solve. Though exploration is hobbled by a map system that leaves a lot to be desired – such as typical functions like zoom or the ability to mark locations to come back to later.It wasn’t all Poros and sunshine in Runeterra: Ruined King suffers from some game-crashing bugs that I encountered routinely playing on PS5 (sometimes at important story moments), and other issues that can slow down progress, like when character models become invisible and unable to interact with objects, and two separate instances where I came back to a corrupted save file or a load screen freezing at 95%. The good news is that things like this happened noticeably less frequently as I played, which may have been thanks to quick patches and hotfixes.
Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/pokemon-brilliant-diamond-shining-pearl-review|Developer Game Freak has been doggedly committed to churning out a Pokémon game nearly every year for more than a decade now, but it has seemingly conceded it can’t do it all anymore. For the latest Pokémon remakes, Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, it put one of the world’s best-known game series into the hands of a support studio many had never even heard of: ILCA. So what does a Pokémon remake look like without Game Freak in the driver’s seat? Turns out it looks a lot like the Pokémon game that Game Freak made, tip to Tail Whip, without the adventurous differences that defined prior remakes.Past Game Freak remakes such as Pokémon Let’s Go, HeartGold and SoulSilver, and Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire have tried, for better or worse, to be ambitious and bold with their reinventions as they revitalized what is now ancient Pokémon history for a new generation. Perhaps because this set of remakes is in different hands with more at stake, Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl are neither ambitious nor bold. Like the themes of their story, they are solid and enduring – leaning on the past, with all of its triumphs and tripwires.In its marketing materials, we were promised a “faithful remake” of 2006’s Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, and by Arceus, that’s what we got. It’s admittedly hard to look at Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl and not imagine that Game Freak and The Pokémon Company weren’t leaning forward in the back seat, frantically yelling directions. Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl are, in almost every respect, meticulously faithful. Fortunately, Diamond and Pearl were pretty darn good games to begin with.Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl tell the same story of a kid going on an adventure to catalog monsters before accidentally becoming the strongest fighter in the region and taking down an overt death cult with weird hair – you know, standard Pokémon stuff. There are no earth-shattering surprises, even after you beat the Elite Four and unlock the National Dex, and for the time being the Pokémon roster is limited to just the Pokémon that were available in Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum back in the day, so don’t expect newer favorites like Corviknight, Wooloo, or Toxtricity.After ten years of Game Boy Pokémon catching and battling, the core game mechanic still holds up as an addictive game design -- tons of strategic depth and gameplay that's incredibly rewarding; it's one of those games that offers an enormous sense of accomplishment for even the littlest things performed. And the touch screen functions of the Nintendo DS help move things faster and easier with simple navigation menus. The developers more capitalize on the system's capabilities in function and interface rather than visual and audio presentation. Sure, there are elements going on here that couldn't be done on the Game Boy Advance, but it's hard to argue that the game looks and sounds a heck of a lot like the past portable versions. 8-bit limitations drove the game's original style, but now that the limits are no longer there it's a little bit of a letdown that Game Freaks played the whole Pokémon production conservatively instead of pushing something more epic. The gameplay holds up incredibly well a decade later, but we're still looking like a 10-year-old portable game here. - Craig Harris, April 20, 2007Score: 8.5Read the full Pokemon Diamond & PEarl review.That may sound rather disappointing on paper, but in practice it’s just dang nice to revisit a simpler time in the Pokémon world without the 900-something Pokémon to keep track of or a bunch of weird, special mechanics – especially because it turns out that what the original Diamond and Pearl lack in modern complexity, they more than make up for in depth. The fourth generation of Pokémon is stuffed with things to do, and so too then is Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl. Its story takes its time in a way the series has largely forgotten, sending you through personable little hamlets with smaller attractions and no gyms, as well as long, winding routes full of trainer battles that will have your Pokémon gulping potion after potion before you reach the next story destination. As an old geezer in Pokémon terms, I’ve missed these gauntlets ever since the series phased them out in favor of shorter stretches, fewer distractions, and more healing breaks. Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl seem meatier for it, too, landing at around 40 hours if you’re at least dabbling in everything you come across, and longer if you dig in.These lengthy hikes are made longer and more complex by the ways in which their design incorporates puzzle-solving moves (HMs) like Rock Climb, Surf, Defog, and so forth. Did Diamond and Pearl, and by extension Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, have too many HMs? Oh heavens yes – but the remake cleverly relegates these moves to the smartphone-like Pokétch menu, rather than making you carry a Bidoof in your party at all times to cut down trees for you. That allows the many hidden areas of Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl to be transformed from unrewarding chores to exciting little spelunks for treasure as you hike your way under, over, around, and through the Sinnoh region’s centerpiece, Mt. Coronet.The post-game is even more packed with things to find. Just like the originals, Brilliant Diamond and Shining pearl have tons of legendaries to track down, rematches with some of your toughest adversaries, sidequests, a whole extra island area after you finish the National Pokédex that’s full of challenging battles, and a wealth of additional Pokémon to catch that don’t appear until you’ve at least seen the first 150. Again, this was all present in the original, but it comes off as even more impressive in 2021 when we’re accustomed to Pokémon games that either make you pay for DLC or write off the post-game entirely.ILCA’s faithfulness to the original Diamond and Pearl extends to the original pair’s weaknesses, too, and nowhere does the commitment surface more conflicting emotions than in the roster of Pokémon you can build your team from. Diamond and Pearl have an utterly bizarre slate of Pokémon partners, skewed heavily toward a handful of types (where are the fire Pokémon?) that make it challenging to assemble anything resembling a balanced group without being railroaded into using a few specific staples (shoutout to Ponyta).That’s still mostly the case in the Brilliant and Shining versions. ILCA devoutly stuck to the original roster monsters for the main story, with the rest unlocked in post-game – and, frankly, some of the original Diamond and Pearl Pokémon line-up kind of stinks! While Platinum’s expanded roster is available for capture if you make enough visits to the Grand Underground and hunt long and hard enough, they don’t appear on the surface where most of the story takes place, and it can be tricky to sniff out the exact partners you want to balance your team. Meanwhile, above ground, every other Pokémon is a Geodude, and there still aren’t enough fire-types to properly counter the hundred or so Bronzor you’ll inevitably have to fight.The smaller roster also makes PokéDex completion and collection much more fun and straightforward. While Diamond and Pearl pioneered the series’ online play, they still recognized its limitations, and thus monster collection is still designed around catching ‘em all yourself and maybe trading with your one friend who has the other version. Again, this is all just incidental to the remake being a pretty faithful one, but when the Pokémon series has about doubled the size of its creature index since the last time most people played Diamond and Pearl, the pared-down roster takes on a new, nostalgic light. You know, for the good ol’ days before Pokémon were ice cream cones (okay actually I like the ice cream cones, sorry, sorry).Despite an almost fanatical faithfulness, there are a handful of places where ILCA was able to put its own, clear stamp on what Pokémon can be, albeit to mixed results. Its remixes of the original Diamond and Pearl soundtrack, which admittedly wasn’t giving ILCA one of Game Freak’s best albums to work with, are almost entirely forgettable. And the tapping rhythm game mechanic added in Pokémon Super Contests doesn’t lean into actual rhythm game goofiness nearly as hard as I wished it had. Without the delightful excess of the original’s dress-up, dance, and performance phases, the whole activity loses its allure.One of the biggest changes in Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl is to the Grand Underground, a cavern maze you can access anywhere in Sinnoh once you acquire an Explorer’s Kit. Like Diamond and Pearl, you can dig into the walls and play an amusing little minigame to find treasure – but unlike Diamond and Pearl, you’ll also stumble upon rooms filled with wild Pokémon wandering on the map that you can encounter, battle, and catch. These Pokémon’s levels will scale up with you as you progress, and even more kinds will appear after you finish filling the Sinnoh PokéDex. You can also create a Secret Base in the Grand Underground and fill it with special statues you dig up to lure certain types of Pokémon. It’s a delightfully massive space, easy to get lost in for hours as you try to scope out that next hidden cavern up ahead, and a marked improvement over the already-excellent Underground of the original.Finally, look out for Diglett and Dugtrio randomly popping up in the tunnels. Maybe if you find all of them, something interesting will happen…But to its credit, ILCA actively shows up Game Freak in a few other areas. The aforementioned tweaks to the Grand Underground that add areas where wild Pokémon roam freely on the map, and I could spend hours running around that maze. Its recreation of Diamond and Pearl in a 3D, chibi style is darling and surprisingly good-looking in action – with the exception of a couple brief, serious moments where it zooms in a bit too close on a too-cute villain monologuing about ending the world. I especially loved the cheeky opening moments of trainer battles in which the full character model would faithfully strike the exact (often silly) pose their Diamond and Pearl sprite used to take at the start of each battle before throwing their Pokéball and resuming more natural movement.Sinnoh in general also looks quite nice within the stylistic bounds ILCA set for itself. Though I wish it hadn’t just replicated the same standard tree every time it wanted a copse or had been a bit more creative with grass and flowers, other elements like Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl’s rippling lakes and detailed water and other surface reflections are so impressive and unlike anything I’ve seen in other Pokémon games that they warranted a moment of admiration. A similar amount of care and love was put into the diverse and detailed battle backdrops, both indoor and outdoor, which is another touch that feels especially poignant given the many battles that took place in white voids in Sword and Shield. I especially loved the thematically appropriate way Mt. Coronet looms in the background during all the outdoor fights, and the lovely lighting adjustments to the same spots at different times of day.Those, combined with other small, thoughtful touches (like having Pokémon follow you outside Amity Square and the ability to change outfits so Dawn doesn’t have to walk through waist-deep snow wearing a miniskirt) made me wish ILCA had either been given the freedom or had the desire to push a bit further outside the bounds of Diamond and Pearl for this remake. I badly want Game Freak to let ILCA take on future Pokémon games in the old top-down tradition, and I want to see what ILCA is willing and able to do with that tradition once the gloves come off. Go on, Game Freak: give ILCA the keys to some Black and White remakes too. Let ‘em go nuts. I dare you.
Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive Edition Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/grand-theft-auto-the-trilogy-the-definitive-edition-review|Has there been a game released in the last 20 years that’s been more influential than Grand Theft Auto III? From its establishment of the open-world sandbox fundamentals to its critical role in reshaping videogames into a more attractive medium for mature audiences, GTA III’s shadow still looms large over almost every facet of the artform. If any game deserved a definitive edition that allowed fans to relive that revolution without squinting to ignore ancient graphics, it’s this. And yet, series creator Rockstar Games has decided to pay tribute to this modern gaming monolith and its two equally acclaimed PS2-era sequels, Vice City and San Andreas, by producing a collection of re-releases that cuts more corners than a Yakuza Stinger in a Liberty City street race. At best this trilogy is ill-conceived and half-finished; at worst it’s straight-up broken. If this half-baked Definitive Edition is anything to go by, I have to wonder if Rockstar reveres its own games as much as the rest of us do.There are some positives, mind you, but almost every welcome addition is implemented at the cost of some sort of buzz-killing compromise. It seems so antiquated that my original playthroughs with each of these three games were done with a paper map unfurled across my lap, so it’s very convenient that you’re now able to just hit pause to scan the full map of each game world and drop waypoint markers to your destination, like modern gamers would expect. However, you can’t override waypoints that are automatically created during a mission, like if you wanted to take a detour across town to an Ammunation or a Pay ‘n’ Spray perhaps, and the pathfinding can often get confused as it continually recalculates over the course of a journey, at times resembling something closer to a hastily scribbled signature than the shortest possible route.Similarly, the “GTAV-inspired modern controls” promised in this collection’s marketing have been applied somewhat unevenly over the three individual games. Weapon switching is improved across the board with the ability to use a shoulder button to bring up a weapon wheel, but auto-targeting feels far snappier in San Andreas than in GTA III and Vice City, and while you can circle-strafe while locked on to an enemy with a lighter weapon equipped, heavier machine guns and the like still root you to the spot and force you into a manually aimed first-person perspective regardless. The auto-targeting in GTA III and Vice City proved to be particularly sluggish whenever I found myself up close and personal with a group of enemies, which was fairly frequent given that enemy AI wasn't designed to use cover and just rushes you more often than not. Thus, in both games I found myself increasingly reliant on the use of sniper rifles to thin the herds from a distance rather than run headlong into yet another spasmodic shootout.A mid-mission checkpointing system has been implemented to good effect in San Andreas, allowing you to restart with all your health and weapons and skip the early setup phase of certain missions. That resolves one of the great complaints of the early games in the 3D series. Yet in GTA III and Vice City, choosing the option to restart at a checkpoint just boots you back to the very start of the mission no matter how deep into it you were when you died. So if, like I did, you die a number of times trying to outrun the cops at the end of the ‘S.A.M.’ mission in the lead up to GTA III’s climax, you still have to drive from the construction site to the boat jetty, take the boat to the end of the airport runway, wait for the plane to arrive, shoot down the plane with the rocket launcher, collect all the packages, return to the mainland, and then try and escape the police, over and over again. It’s odd that one game allows you to literally cut to the chase while the other two force you to repeatedly bring the car around and warm up the engine first.The new cartoonish character designs have certainly been met with some controversy and mockery among fans, but while I wouldn’t say they look good I don’t have any real issue with them personally. Sure, they all look like a bunch of down and out Disney Infinity dolls, and yes, the Candy Suxxx character model well, kinda sucks, but the only time I ever felt really distracted by them was in the occasional cutscene where characters would be holding objects like pistols or cigarettes in the empty space where their blocky, fingerless fists used to be.Even the new lighting system brings mixed results. The neon facades of Vice City’s Ocean Beach district really pop and reflections on cars and puddles are appealing, but elsewhere the overly intense shadows would cast characters into darkness no matter how much I fiddled with the brightness and contrast settings. Although squinting to make out detail in dark areas was still less of a strain on my eyes than the truly torturous rain effect, which made me feel I was being waterboarded with a can of silly string.Meanwhile, an improved draw distance – which was likely intended to make each environment seem bigger – has actually had the opposite effect. This is particularly glaring in San Andreas where, coupled with the removal of the Los Angeles-inspired orange smog haze that once concealed the PS2’s technical limitations, you can stand out front of a cabin in Flint County and see the San Fierro skyline looming in the very immediate distance. It completely shatters the convincing illusion of scale that the map was previously able to conjure, and it now feels like wandering around Disney’s Frontierland while having an unobstructed view of Space Mountain. This improved draw distance may also contribute to this collection’s constantly wavering framerate on PS5, which is prone to frequent stuttering whether you opt for fidelity or performance modes. Why you’re even forced to make that choice on a modern console in a collection of games that are each old enough to vote and still don’t look all that good is beyond me. And if you’re playing on Switch (which I have not but others at IGN have) there’s no avoiding the terrible performance.Then there are the bugs, which were waiting to ambush me around every corner like a bunch of game-breaking gangbangers. (For the sake of transparency, I completed every main mission in GTA III and Vice City, and all the main missions in San Andreas up until San Fierro for the purposes of this review.) Hard crashes, frozen cutscenes, NPCs getting caught running in circles, bridges and building exteriors disappearing, and a particularly bizarre morphing texture glitch that has permanently left my CJ in San Andreas resembling Watchmen’s Rorschach are just a few examples of the many rough edges I’ve been exposed to in all three games. All this, I might add, was on PS5 – by the sounds of it, audiences on PC and Nintendo Switch have had it even worse. I’m assuming that the developer is frantically preparing bug-fixing patches as we speak, but it’s a bit like barring the stable door after the horse has glitched through the wall and exploded.However, it’s a testament to just how brilliant these games remain, that I still found myself smiling during my replays of the three stories in spite of the many issues. There’s no doubt that the mission design has aged, particularly in GTA III, and creaky limitations like the lack of swimming in both it and Vice City can be tough to reconcile with. But elsewhere, these are video game playgrounds packed with personality and invention and accompanied by incredible soundtracks, even despite a few notable licensed omissions from Vice City and San Andreas that Rockstar has long since lost the rights to include. And they’re just so dense with exceedingly quotable humour, much of which has stayed with me in the years since I first played them. I can’t come home from a night out without telling my wife “Yep, I’ve been drinking again.” Oftentimes I can’t get the wah-wahing Giggle Cream jingle out of my head. And I still don’t know why men have nipples.Not only did I enjoy reabsorbing all the hilarious writing, but it was also quite fascinating to sit and play through the three games back to back and relive the rapid evolution of a series (and genre) that would soon become all-conquering. GTA III establishes the blueprint, Vice City refines it and adds weaponised ‘80s nostalgia to its arsenal, and San Andreas expands it in every direction and arguably perfects it, at least given the technology available at the time. There’s no denying the seemingly never-ending commercial success of GTAV, but as far as purely single-player GTA games go, I personally feel that San Andreas might still be the pinnacle.That’s what makes these re-releases such a bitter adrenaline pill to swallow. While these games may have aged too much to be attractive to new players, they are still fun to revisit for existing fans... but this is just far from being the ideal way to experience them. It’s akin to Martin Scorcese announcing a new director’s cut of Goodfellas, but palming off the actual editing work to McG. You’re still getting three iconic GTA games and they’re certainly still playable, but they’re not delivered with anywhere near the level of exacting craftsmanship we’ve grown to expect from Rockstar. I can’t help but wonder how different this re-released collection could have been had the publisher issued talented members of the GTA modding community employment contracts rather than cease and desist letters.
Shin Megami Tensei V Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/shin-megami-tensei-v-review|Shin Megami Tensei V feels like the edgier, less sociable younger brother of Persona 5, even though Persona began as a spin-off to the series. Both branches of the family share much of their cast of highly customizable demons, like mythological Pokemon you smash together to make even more powerful ones. They have similar, excellent turn-based combat systems that encourage you to fish for your opponents' weaknesses and make smart use of every resource available to you. What's missing from the Persona formula here is a lot of its heart, but Shin Megami Tensei V still rises to succeed in most other ways.The bulk of the action takes place across four expansive, open areas of the Netherworld: an alternate reality reflecting a post-apocalyptic Tokyo crawling with mythological beasts and heroes. They range from the sun-baked desert expanse of Minato to the gloomy, blood red badlands of Shinagawa, and each one echoes an area of real-world Tokyo with ruined buildings and major landmarks jutting out of the wastes. They all have a very distinct vibe, diverging from a central theme of surreal, techno-religious weirdness. While you'll fight lots of intense battles within them, these bizarre cityscapes also encourage exploration and even involve some tricky platforming to find all of the hidden Miman – little red dudes who give you a currency you can use on miraculous bonuses for your whole party or to customize the protagonist.And customization is the main pillar of SMT5. Since there are no human party members who stay with you the whole adventure, you'll build a rotating team of three demons who all have their own strengths, weaknesses, and special tricks. Fusing two or more demons into stronger ones is central to your progression, but you can also hoard items called grimoires that let you continue powering up a couple specific demons you want to keep with you for the long haul, which I really appreciated. Gaining new demons involves a negotiation system which requires learning each demon's personality and what kind of responses will please them, which admittedly seemed overly random at times. But it could also be pretty funny when I picked what seemed like the perfect response only to have the rug pulled out from under me by an unexpected objection – like a vainglorious fairy who runs away if you call her beautiful because she's too shy to handle such a compliment, or an unhinged horse demon who only takes a liking to you if you insult him repeatedly.Things really get interesting when you factor in the essence system, though, which lets you teach skills from a different demon to an existing one, and even inherit their elemental resistances and weaknesses. Between fusion, miracles, and essences, it's possible to create some absurdly powerful and specialized teams that can take on almost any challenge. The way these systems interact isn't spelled out especially well, but I really enjoyed the gradual path to mastering them myself through trial and error. A hunger to experiment is a huge plus in this netherworld.And mastery is basically a necessity unless you want to play on the easier difficulty. Shin Megami Tensei has a reputation for being brutally difficult as a series, and I was able to see why, even on its Normal mode. Just using the strongest demons I came across naturally, I often got chewed up and spit out pretty quickly – especially against certain bosses and in the last quarter of the story. But that's only until I realized that the real challenge was in meticulously creating the perfect team for each area, and sometimes even each fight. All of the tools are there, and if you know how to use them, you can blow right past enemies that once seemed unbeatable. But there is no mercy to be found if you don't, so going in with the right mindset is a must.There's also a fair bit of grinding involved if you want to keep pace with the challenges ahead, which isn't that unexpected for a JRPG. It definitely drags on at times when you might have to fight the same group of enemies 10, 15, or even 20 times in the same area to level up. Some sort of randomized battle modifier just to shake things up now and then would have been really welcome. Again, I think about the Showtime attacks and unstable shadows added in the Royal version of Persona 5 as examples of how Atlus has tackled this problem successfully in the past. You can skip some amount of grinding by cleverly exploiting a specific enemy type that you'll have to figure out for yourself, but you can't avoid it entirely – especially toward the very end.When you're not exploring and battling your way through the wastelands, you'll spend a few short interludes back in the non-apocalyptic version of Tokyo, which felt kind of like an unnecessary minigame. You move a little pawn around a zoomed-out cityscape where there's really not much to do or interact with, but these segments are generally over before you know it. Each chapter also concludes with a substantial mega dungeon – though only one of the three, a hellish fortress complete with challenging jumping puzzles, felt significantly different from the rest of the adventure. The other two are mostly just hallways filled with monsters. The final dungeon sort of half tries to introduce an interesting new mechanic with doorways that start and stop time when you pass through them, but it ends up being less of a puzzle and more of a way to force you to backtrack. The solutions were all too mindlessly straightforward to feel like I'd accomplished anything.The other area where SMT5 consistently fell short for me was the writing. It takes upwards of 20 hours to find any personal motivation beyond survival and figuring out what's going on, and the companion characters are also very under-developed. You don't get to spend enough time with most of them for one thing, since they don't usually join you in battle or even have their own side stories. You run into them for a few minutes during cutscenes after many hours of adventuring, and none of them seem to have in-depth backgrounds or even much of a character arc. They exist mostly as decoration on a story that cares more about big concepts than people.The main story is definitely interesting at least, and not just another rehash of God vs Satan for control of humanity's destiny. While I won't spoil anything, the three [update: or more, it turns out!] possible endings are a bit more nuanced than that. Although, your decisions right up to the moment you "lock in" to one path don't seem to affect them at all, and things become pretty convoluted at the very end. It introduces an entirely new metaphysical concept through an expository dialogue dump at basically the last possible moment, which seems meant to recontextualize the whole situation, but then doesn't really explain how it works or even what exactly happened with it after the final battle. This left the last hour or so feeling like a somewhat cold, confusing conclusion to an epic, 80-hour undertaking I otherwise enjoyed.At least the art throughout is exceptional. It's every bit as visually stylish as any other Atlus game, and I love the design of the main character. The demons, both new and familiar to series veterans, look and sound awesome, and have some fantastic unique attack animations. There are definitely some framerate issues in certain areas though, and details like grass that only pop in when you're very close can be distracting. Atlus really tried to push the limits of the Switch's hardware, and it's a gamble that pays off in some spots and not in others. On the other hand, the moody music is pretty great, too, even if it’s never as emotional or memorable as Persona's iconic vocal tracks.
Mario Party Superstars Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/mario-party-superstars-review|With 23 years of history under its belt, the Mario Party series has certainly had its fair share of highs and lows, with its highs representing some of the most fun I’ve had playing local multiplayer games with friends, and its lows being… well, the near opposite of that. Thankfully, Mario Party Superstars is a celebration of only the best moments this long-running franchise has had. It gathers 100 of the most enjoyable minigames, five excellent boards from the first three Mario Party games, and an amalgamation of some of the best rules, mechanics, and quality-of-life improvements into a single Switch game. It’s still unsurprisingly dull without friends, and not all of the minigames are worthy of the “superstar” label, but on the whole this is quite simply the best Mario Party has been in a very long time.2018’s Super Mario Party represented a “back to basics” shift for the series, and Mario Party Superstars has taken that idea several steps further by focusing in on the N64 and early GameCube days. There are no motion-controlled minigames, no item capsules, no character-specific custom dice blocks, no buddies to recruit, and of course, no party car. Just four players, each taking turns rolling dice, moving along a virtual game board, playing minigames to earn coins, and using those coins to buy stars. And maybe it's because it has been a long while since we’ve had a Mario Party game without some sort of extra gimmick, but this simplicity is incredibly refreshing, and I certainly didn’t miss having something there to mix up the formula.It helps that the five boards are some of the best-designed in Mario Party’s history. Yoshi’s Tropical Island is an excellent starter board with an easy-to-understand layout and a fun twist involving the star marker swapping between its two islands – it’s sure to lead to heartbreak and elation in equal measure among your friends. Space Land, meanwhile, is a go-to when I want to play without any game-changing board mechanics and just get that pure virtual board game experience; Peach’s Birthday Cake offers a completely different style of play by keeping the star in one position and sprinkling spots where you can plant coin or star-stealing piranha plants; Woody Woods forces you to think several moves ahead thanks to its constantly changing arrows that send you down different paths; and finally, Horror Land is a personal favorite of mine because of its fun day/night mechanic and a King Boo that can let you steal a star from every other player... if you get a skeleton key, 150 coins, and are able to reach him while it’s night. It’s an insane hail Mary win condition to shoot for, but if you are able to manage it, it’s sure to be a story you and your friends won’t soon forget.Developer NdCube has done a fantastic job of bringing both the looks and sounds of these boards up to modern standards as well. Character models are pretty much identical to how they looked in Super Mario Party three years ago, but the remade boards are immaculately detailed, with Peach’s Birthday Cake being a clear standout thanks to the hyper-realistic and delicious-looking snacks decorating the linear path around the cake. It also can’t be understated that not only have all of the boards and nearly all of the 100 minigames undergone dramatic visual transformations, but they’ve also gained new instrumental arrangements for every song that accompanies them. You can even unlock the songs from the store and listen to both the classic and modern versions of each one in the Data House, which is great because while the N64 songs still hold up, their modernized versions are even better.But while the boards are all impressive, the one bummer is that there are still only five of them. That is a step up over the dismal four that Super Mario Party offered, but still not on par with just about every single other numbered Mario Party game in the past, which have almost always included six. Even just adding one more board from Mario Party 3 would have gone a long way toward making the package feel more robust, and it would have evened out the balance of boards from the three N64 games at the same time.At the heart of any good Mario Party game is its minigames, and fortunately almost none of the 100 that were cherry picked from every numbered entry in the series disappoint. You’ve got your all-time classics like Bumper Balls, Shy Guy Says, Hot Rope Jump, Revers-A-Bomb, and Booksquirm, just to name a few favorites. What makes these games so great is their sheer simplicity, plus a small added twist. Bumper Balls, for instance, is literally just a game about bumping your rivals off a small circular platform while riding a bouncy ball. But the twist is that in order to knock an opponent off, you have to put yourself in a dangerous position by building up momentum and bumping them close to the edge, which puts you in prime position to get bumped off yourself.And then you also have some picks that might not immediately come to mind, yet wind up being great selections because of the variety they bring to the table. Honeycomb Havoc, a game in which you just take turns picking one or two fruits at a time and try not to be the one who’s forced to grab a honeycomb, may not be the most exciting game in the world based on what’s happening on-screen, but the metagame that’s happening between you and your friends as you’re all able to see their loss or victory several moves ahead makes it one of my favorites out of the whole pack.Very few, if any, are complete duds. That said, there are a couple of minigames that are so close to each other that including both of them feels like a waste of space. Leaf Leap and What Goes Up both have you racing upwards by hopping up platforms as fast as you can; Pokey Pummel and Mecha Marathon both have you pressing a button (or buttons) really fast; and Roll Call and Goomba Spotting both have you counting the number of things that appear on screen. All are fun games, and none are completely identical, but when you consider that classic minigames such as Platform Peril, Locked Out, and Running of the Bulb didn’t make the final cut, it’s hard not to feel a bit disappointed at these handful of double-ups.My only other gripe with the minigame selection is that many of the 1v3 minigames are so skewed to favor either the single player or the group of three that it really doesn’t make it much fun for either. In Piranha’s Pursuit, for instance, it doesn’t even feel like you’re part of the minigame when you’re on the team of three, Archer-ival feels actively terrible when you’re not the archer, and Tidal Toss feels nearly impossible to win as a solo player if even one of the team of three is any good. Oh, and there’s the iconic, N64 controller-destroying Tug o’ War, which actually requires an in-game warning to advise you not to use your palm to rotate the control stick in order to avoid damaging either your Joy-Con or your hand.That said, there are a couple of genuinely great 1v3 minigames, like Tackle Takedown, which is a football minigame that has the team of three attempting to tackle the single player who is able to use three bursts of speed to try and juke them out of their boots. But the majority are underwhelming and I always groaned when I saw one was coming up.Mario Party Superstars doesn’t do much that’s completely new for the series, which is completely fine with me considering it brings back so many things that I love and missed from recent Mario Party games. Like for example, stars that cost 20 coins instead of 10, which was a big issue I had with Super Mario Party. It was just far too easy for everyone to afford stars in that game, which really hindered the actual board game strategy and placed too much importance on recruiting buddies to bolster your dice rolls. In addition, Duel Minigames are back and help make the final five turns way more exciting by giving you and your adversaries the opportunity to challenge each other to high-stakes, 1-on-1 minigames with wagered coins up for grabs. And of course, Chance Time is back as well, which introduces all sorts of chaos into the mix..Bonus stars can also be turned on, off, and even set to the classic style of always going out to the ones who collect the most coins, win the most minigames, and/or land on the most event spaces – but the one truth of Mario Party is that even despite all of those options, luck will always be a factor. Try as you might, you’ll never be able to completely remove its hold over every game, and that’s part of the magic. There will absolutely be times when the person who won the least amount of minigames will end up the overall victor, stealing a win from the person who held the lead for the majority of the match in the final seconds. And yeah, that may feel bad for some people in the moment, but the joy I get from Mario Party Superstars doesn’t come from winning or losing. It comes from the hilarious interactions it pulls out of me and my friends, which it does with a reliability that few other games are able to match.Playing locally in the same room is obviously ideal, but Mario Party Superstars also has a pretty solid suite of online options. The standard Party Mode has both matchmaking with random players as well as private lobbies that let you invite specific friends, and if someone drops out their character will be controlled by a bot until they are able to reconnect – an amusing selection of emote stickers can even let your rivals know exactly how you feel about Boo stealing your hard earned stars. There’s also Mt. Minigames, which offers a variety of modes that let you play minigames a la carte. In the limited amount of testing I was able to do before launch, lag certainly played a noticeable factor in one of my sessions, especially in the more reflex intensive games like Hot Rope Jump and Bill Blasters, but online play was generally fun and serviceable overall.
Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/marvels-guardians-of-the-galaxy-game-review|If you, like me, played the Square Enix-published Marvel’s Avengers and said to yourself “I wish this had just focused on the single-player campaign instead of all this game-as-a-service stuff,” then do I have good news for you: Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy, also published by Square Enix, has flown in to save the day. With no microtransactions, no multiplayer, and a relatively meaty story, it’s further proof that linear, single-player campaigns haven’t gone anywhere. Its simple but entertaining combat and fairly straightforward level design won’t revolutionize the genre or anything, but those solid fundamentals and the metric ton of personality slathered on top of them are more than enough to make Guardians of the Galaxy some good old-fashioned fun.Despite being named after the team, you spend the entirety of this roughly 18-hour campaign playing as Peter Quill, AKA Star-Lord. That was a surprising choice to me, but it’s one that ends up working very well for the story that’s being told. The main plot is basically exactly what you’d expect: a cosmic comic book adventure about the Guardians trying to get out of debt, learning to work together, and maybe saving the galaxy along the way – but it’s framed by events that are much more personal to Peter. The result is an engaging story that balances its constant barrage of spectacle and banter with some genuinely heartfelt moments, for both Peter and the rest of the crew: Gamora, Drax, Rocket, and Groot.While that story is also entirely linear, developer Eidos Montreal’s Deus Ex roots certainly show through with the amount of dialogue choice you are given during it. You’re constantly handed options for how Peter will respond to different conversations, whether those are during important story moments or while walking around chatting with your teammates – there’s rarely a moment where the Guardians aren’t talking, which is welcome when the writing and performances are all as amusing as they are. These dialogue choices are mostly just a fun bit of role playing in an otherwise on-rails story, but some of them can have an unexpected impact.For example, making the right dialogue choices to save a character at one point could have them come back to help you later on. Another time I made a choice that resulted in the next level being a simple stealth section, only to find out after finishing the story that choosing the other option would have instead turned the entire level into a massive firefight. The vast majority of this campaign will likely look very similar for everyone, but these little differences did add a personal touch to my playthrough and got me more interested in trying New Game Plus to see what else could have happened.It’s not just the story that’s played from Peter’s perspective, either: in combat you only have direct control of him and his dual pistols. Instead of swapping into the shoes of the other Guardians, they unlock a total of four abilities each which you can instruct them to use on command. That could be Groot sending out roots to bind up enemies or Gamora dealing a massive amount of damage to a single target. This system gives you a lot of options at any given moment, and the pace at which they are rolled out and the intuitive way they are mapped to your controller makes it a rewardingly manageable task to juggle mid-fight.Peter has a few tricks too, of course. He’ll get four powers of his own, one of which is the ability to activate his jet boots and fly for a short time, and four different types of elemental shots that can do stuff like freeze or burn baddies alongside his regular laser blasts. Combat is a lot of fun thanks to that variety of options, even if it isn’t exactly the deepest or most complicated dance I’ve ever taken part in. Between giving orders to your fellow Guardians, you’ll mostly be holding the left trigger to lock on to an enemy and the right trigger to unleash a fire hose of lasers. A simple active-reload system will reward you with extra damage and keep you paying attention, but for the most part you’re gonna be holding down that right trigger a lot.Even still, combat never stopped being enjoyable for the entire campaign. That’s partially thanks to the enemy design, which is varied enough that you’re pushed to use different elemental attacks to exploit weaknesses or remove shields, as well as bigger enemies that can be staggered by certain abilities. Your teammates all have different roles they fill too – Gamora’s abilities generally have high damage, Drax is more about stagger, Rocket has the best AOE, and Groot can bind targets. It’s good that their abilities feel impactful, too, because apart from them you’ll be doing nearly all of the damage yourself; your teammates’ auto-attacks deal about as much damage as an aggressive massage.Another thing that keeps combat fresh throughout is the banter. Seriously, there is so much voiced dialogue in this game, and the interplay between each team member is both entertaining and informative, in that you see their relationships evolve throughout the story. There were undoubtedly moments where I’d hear the same line yelled a few too many times, but on the whole there’s an impressive variety to all these barks. That meant overly similar fights could still be lent new appeal based on their context or the conversations that take place during them.Dialogue choice is even brought directly into combat with a super move called The Huddle. When activated (which can be done accidentally a little too easily by pressing L1 and R1 at the same time), Peter gathers everyone around to talk about the fight, and then you have to choose a pep talk response based on the things they’ve said to earn a buff. It will also play one of Guardians of the Galaxy’s many licensed ‘80s songs for the duration of the buff, which can either be exciting or hysterical depending on the result. Fighting a giant alien squid boss while “Everybody Have Fun Tonight” by Wang Chung played has got to be one of the most absurdly joyous moments I’ve had in a game all year, while having Bobby McFerrin’s “Don’t Worry, Be Happy” unexpectedly come on during a climactic endgame encounter was a different sort of hilarious.Between the fights and cutscenes you’ll make your way through Guardians of the Galaxy’s varied locations, which range from Nova Corp space ships to gorgeous alien worlds. Like the story itself, these sections are extremely linear paths with an occasional environmental puzzle to solve or optional collectible to find, broken up by fights in more open arenas. And similar to the combat, they stay entertaining the whole way through more thanks to the banter and visual variety rather than being especially deep or engaging on their own.You’ll occasionally need to command your teammates here, too, potentially asking Rocket to hack a terminal or Drax to carry something big and heavy from one spot to another. That can make for some extremely simple but still relatively amusing puzzle solving as you figure out the right way to combine different abilities. Having your team around also adds a little more liveliness to these paths, with them wandering off to look at things on their own or standing around bored while you go search a side route – their presence also helps solve that completionist problem of knowing whether a path is the right way or the “wrong” way full of goodies, since they’ll usually move toward to the next main path on their own and make comments when you head off in search of loot.The collectibles you’ll nab are either crafting currency used to upgrade Peter’s capabilities, cosmetic costumes for different team members to wear (all of which are cooler than a recolor, full of new outfits and throwback references alike), written logs for a bit of story flavor, or special items that unlock new conversations when you are hanging out back on your ship between chapters. It was always rewarding to collect these things, even if the side paths were often just as easy to find and navigate as the main ones. The only real complaint here is that crafting currency is so prevalent that it starts to become a bit tedious to pick up, but that’s probably primarily due to the unfortunate lack of a sprint button.Comics vs Movie InspirationsWhile Guardians of the Galaxy has been around a lot longer than its MCU introduction, it’s probably fair to say that 2014’s movie put them into the public consciousness in a way they were previously nowhere near. And while this game clearly takes inspiration from James Gunn’s excellent adaptation in its main cast and retro music vibes, as a fan of the comics I was happy to see just how comic booky it is too.Without going into spoilers, I was thrilled to see some of the Easter eggs and comic book references that were sprinkled throughout, as well as a few characters who show up in surprisingly significant ways. It’s clear that while Marvel’s Guardians of the Galaxy is trading on some of the recognizable popularity of the movies (the first costume you can find for each team member is based on their 2014 movie outfits), it was also made with a love for the source material in mind.The ultimate result is a game comic book fans will likely find something special in, but those who only know the movies can still quickly pick up and understand – which does feel important, given how wacky and unpredictable the places it goes can be and how many different characters are introduced. More importantly, Cosmo the psychic Russian space dog is finally given the screen time he deserves, and is truly the best boy.Continuing the overall trend, the upgrade system itself is also something that stays satisfying and enjoyable till the very end, even if it can be a little flat at times. Completing fights earns you ability points to unlock new powers, while crafting currency can be spent on any of 15 different perks that are available to unlock right from the start. Having everything on the table right away is nice because it means you get to prioritize the upgrades you want in the order you want them, but it also means there aren’t really any surprises as the campaign progresses. But even without that, I enjoyed that perks felt significant – only some of them are pure stat increases, while most unlock new moves like a dash punch or time slowing for a moment when you dodge at the last second.As a final note, it’s worth mentioning that I did encounter a handful of bugs throughout my playtime on PlayStation 5. Apart from two hard crashes nothing was too dramatic, and Square Enix has said that a number of the issues I encountered will be fixed by release. That said, I did find my progress impeded a couple of times due to an event not triggering correctly or a button prompt breaking, as well as some weird visual issues here and there like the adult Peter model being horrifically squished into childhood Peter’s frame for one scene. All it ever took was a quick checkpoint reload to sort things out, and the auto-save and checkpointing are so forgiving that even the worst issues never left me sour, but it’s not clear how much of that will be there on launch day.
Cruis’n Blast Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/cruisn-blast-review|An outrageous and anarchic throwback racer built for people allergic to brake buttons, Cruis’n Blast is a goofy and cheesily garish ode to a near-extinct style of arcade racing that once ruled the road. Extremely easy to pick up and play and primed to appeal to anyone whose favourite colour starts with the word “neon”, Cruis’n Blast wears all of its old-school sensibilities proudly on its sleeve.While this is refreshing to a degree, the unfortunate side effects of its simple arcade approach are that it does run dry of thrills after only a couple of afternoons and there are definitely times where it seems as prehistoric as its hilariously peculiar garage.Above everything else Cruis’n Blast is properly fast, and this speed is arguably its greatest asset. Cruis’n Blast is a racing game in fast-forward, and every event feels a little like trying to hug a heat seeking missile fired through a waterslide. The sheer speed makes the racing a lot of fun, even if the chaos can sometimes overlap so much it becomes a little numbing after a while.If you’re wondering if Cruis’n Blast’s constantly somersaulting and corkscrewing cars means you’ll need high-grade controller skills to pull off these tricks, you can stop wondering. There really isn’t any turbocharged Tony Hawk-level of complexity here, and most of the time the fancy flips I performed while playing were completely by accident. To be honest, the majority of the stunts actually seem fairly inconsequential to winning or losing, although ripping a wheelie into the rear of an opponent to flip over and overtake is generally quite effective.Despite appearances, Cruis’n Blast is actually very easy to play. In fact, it took me several hours to even realise there was a dedicated brake button – and even once I knew it was there, I’ve still never used it. Scraping against the forgiving track boundaries will also simply fling you back on course with little to no loss of momentum. Drifting is extremely undemanding, and it’s quite simple to increase or reduce drift angle to carve through any corner. Like plenty of arcade racers, drifting is the key to building boost. In Cruis’n Blast it’s possible to preserve a drift at an extremely low angle – low enough to maintain through lengthy stretches of straight road – so building boost is no hassle.Winning is a little less straightforward – at least on the higher difficulty settings – but this is down to the highly-orchestrated AI, which seems engineered to string us along and not allow the leaders of a race to be caught until close to the end. It’s admittedly on-brand for the style of coin-op racing Cruis’n Blast is aiming to emulate, but it is a little graceless when the AI outright cheats and blinks into existence right beside you moments after you’ve literally taken them out, Burnout-style.Cruis’n Blast’s tracks are impressively imaginative and filled with dynamic spectacle, from huge, moving creatures and devastating earthquakes to crumbling structures and crashing vehicles. That said, while developer Raw Thrills claims there are 29 of them, the reality is nothing of the sort. Playing through the cups reveals the number of unique tracks is realistically far lower, as they’re recycled throughout the themed-tournaments with some tweaks to the background visuals and effects. This means brachiosaurs become skyscraper-sized yetis and choppers become UFOs, but the track layouts and action beats remain identical.Equally wild is Cruis’n Blast’s garage, which features everything from a grab-bag of random cars from General Motors and a pair of Nissans to unicorns, sharks, fire trucks, and tanks. I’ve played a lot of racing games, but I’ve never driven a levitating shark who can drift, or a unicorn that makes engine noises.Wackier still are the customisation options; yes, you can install neons on your hammerhead and yes, it seems someone at GM signed off on letting Raw Thrills install three different bodykits on this Corvette at the same time. It’s all a little dorky but it’s cute and my kids love it.They’re also big fans of the four-player splitscreen, which is the most fun way to play Cruis’n Blast – though with the frame rate slashed in half it’s certainly not the prettiest. Multiplayer is enjoyable but the rubber banding tends to makes winning a bit of a crapshoot between whoever has saved their boosts until the end of the race. You’ll need to put up with it if you’re keen for multiplayer thrills, though; Cruis’n Blast has local multiplayer support, but it has no online mode.
Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/nickelodeon-all-star-brawl-review|The idea of a Super Smash Bros.-style platform fighter that brings together some of Nickelodeon’s most beloved cartoons across multiple generations is one that just makes so much sense, and it’s kind of a wonder that it’s taken this long for something like Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl to come around. But despite Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl’s clear inspirations, developer Ludosity has made a notable effort to differentiate its mechanics and the overall flow of combat from Smash Bros., resulting in a fighter that is way faster than any Smash game has been since Melee in 2001. This puts All-Star Brawl in a great spot as an alternative to Smash Ultimate that’s available on practically every platform – but its subpar use of its wealth of source material, along with a general lack of polish and a few irksome mechanics, does mean it’s not a recommendation that comes without a few significant caveats.The first thing that comes across while playing All-Star Brawl is that this feels like a game made on a pretty tight budget. The character models and backgrounds lack detail, the original themes made for each level are extremely generic, there’s just one barebones single-player arcade mode, a barely worth mentioning Sports Mode, and zero meaningful unlockables or progression rewards outside of some images and songs in a jukebox. But perhaps the most damning thing of all is that, despite being a game all about celebrating Nickelodeon’s finest, there’s very little Nickelodeon charm that comes through. There’s no voice acting, no remixes of any themes from the many cartoons featured, and while the stages are littered with fun Easter eggs for fans to discover, it all just feels kind of soulless.It’s an impressive come-from-behind victory, then, that All-Star Brawl is still really fun to actually play. It follows the same basic formula as other platform fighters by removing life bars in favor of damage percentages: the more you get hit, the higher your damage percentage and the further you’ll go flying from every hit until you’re KO’d by an opponent knocking you off the stage (unless you turn on critical KOs). This means two key things: you can potentially be killed after taking hardly any damage, or you could survive even after taking an enormous amount of punishment. It’s a really exciting style of action where it feels like you always have a chance to make a miraculous comeback even if you’re down multiple lives.This style of fighting game really comes alive in a party environment with up to three friends, and All-Star Brawl is no different. It’s super easy to pick up, be given minimal instructions on how to play, and have a good time regardless of your experience level. That said, the developers are clearly huge Smash fans themselves, because they’ve designed the deeper mechanics behind that approachable coat of paint with more hardcore fans of those games in mind.Where All-Star Brawl sets itself apart is primarily in its movement. It’s exceptionally fast-paced, facilitated by high run speeds, speedy recoveries on most attacks, and its unique air dash that functions as a recovery option, a wavedash, and a fastfall all in one. The air dash allows you to dash left and right for a quick, substantial boost of horizontal momentum that you can still perform actions out of, or in any direction downwards for an even larger burst of speed. The downside is that it’s specifically an air dash, and not an air dodge, which means that there’s no invulnerability frames during it.It’s a trade-off worth making though. I love the extra mobility given to every character thanks to this unique take on the traditional air-dodge mechanic. It allows for unpredictable approaches, greatly aids characters who would otherwise struggle immensely with their recoveries when trying to get back to the stage after a big hit, and works as a great tool to play mind games with your opponent and keep them guessing at what you might do.There are also a number of smaller mechanical differences that help further establish All-Star Brawl’s identity in the platform fighter genre. There’s no rolling or spot dodging, so the only way to avoid taking damage when you are hit is by blocking or negating the attack with one of your own; instead of Smash attacks, there are strong attacks which can be performed in the air; and every character has a throw that allows them to pick their opponent up and move them around before tossing them (unless the opponent is able to mash out of their grasp).While I appreciate most of the ways All-Star Brawl tries to be different, I’m not a fan of all of its mechanics. I especially don’t like that all characters have basically the same throw, nor do I really like the throw mechanics in general. It looks janky, it’s too easy to mash out of at low percentages, and feels like a cheap KO at high percentages. But worst of all, not giving unique animations for each character on their throws feels like a missed opportunity to add some more personality to each movelist, while also further diversifying their playstyles. .They may not look quite good enough to really flood my brain with nostalgia chemicals, but All-Star Brawl’s cast of characters is largely great from a design point of view. It’s a healthy mix of some obvious “must haves” and interesting oddballs that might not immediately spring to mind when you think of iconic Nicktoons, but end up being pretty inspired choices – like Nigel Thornberry, whose eccentric moveset involves him mimicking attacks and poses of various animals to hilarious effect.There are definitely some glaring omissions, like any characters from Rocko’s Modern Life, Angry Beavers, or the Fairly Oddparents just to name a few, but all-in-all, this is a fairly admirable starting roster of 20 characters that primarily covers a decent spread of Nicktoons from the ‘90s to the early 2000s. There are classics like Rugrats and Hey Arnold, megahits from the 2000s like Avatar: The Last Airbender and The Legend of Korra, and then The Loud House as the sole representative of modern Nicktoons.Each fighter plays just like you’d expect they would. My personal favorite, Avatar’s Aang, has weak overall power, but can chain his light airbending attacks together at pretty much any percentage and becomes an absolute combo machine. Reptar plays the role of the Bowser-like beast with slow attacks that can send you packing with just one or two strong attacks close to the edge. Meanwhile, Lucy Loud changes into either a vampire or ghost form whenever she connects with her bite attack, which alters the properties of some of her moves. I do wish that not every character had a spike move on their aerial light-down attack since – it’s such a powerful finisher that giving it to characters who are already super strong feels like overkill – and some characters have moves that are eyebrow-raisingly close to what’s found in Smash Bros. – but aside from those issues everybody on the roster feels quite distinct from one another.What doesn’t feel distinct is when multiple people pick the same character. For whatever reason, there are no alternate colors or costumes for any of the characters. If you’re playing with four Reptars, the only thing that distinguishes you from your opponents is the small icon above each one, which can make it hard to figure who you are at an immediate glance, especially in larger stages.Each character comes with their own stage, a total of 20 in all, which is a pretty decent number of arenas... except when you consider that the number of stages you’ll actually want to visit is probably much lower than that. Whether you’re playing competitively or casually, most of the gimmicky stages just aren’t fun to fight on. You’re often going up against the stage more than you’re going up against your friends as you try to keep up with rapidly moving tiny platforms in the Space Madness stage or avoid roller coaster cars on the two solid bits of land in the Glove World stage, just to name two frustrating examples. These types of levels aren’t anything new, but they don’t have the kind of visual spectacle that makes that sort of sacrifice worth it.The handful of stages that are worth playing on are the ones you’ve probably come to expect. Relatively flat and straightforward stand-ins for Smash’s iconic Final Destination, Battlefield, Smashville, and so on. That said, while most of the gimmick levels are a nightmare, there are a few that can be pretty fun given the right circumstances. The Showdown at Teeter Totter Gulch level from Rugrats is a personal favorite of mine because its teetering central platform isn’t too intrusive and provides a nice change of pace. And even though it’s a little too hard to get kills on because of its enormous size, the Powdered Toast Trouble level is packed with fun interactables and Ren and Stimpy Easter eggs.Perhaps the secret weapon of Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl is its online play with rollback netcode, which in my experience has been relatively smooth for the most part. There certainly have been bad matches, especially on certain levels like the Rooftop Rumble stage, which I’ve had numerous issues with while playing online, but the vast majority of my online matches have been without any issues. It’s definitely no Guilty Gear Strive in terms of the quality of its netcode, but at the very least, it’s good enough where I can comfortably say that this is the one area where All-Star Brawl has a clear advantage over Smash Ultimate.
Nintendo Switch OLED Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/nintendo-switch-oled-review|In 2021, Nintendo announced the latest iteration of its hybrid gaming console in the form of the $350 Nintendo Switch OLED model. Despite all of the things this hardware refresh does right, most notably the slightly bigger and much better-looking display, the unchanged internal specs and lack of significant improvements to the dock have left me ambivalent after spending a week using it. The excellent new screen certainly makes this the best Switch for anyone who doesn’t already have one, but the relatively slim list of upgrades for those who do also has me wondering why some of these design revisions weren’t rolled out with the 2019 model.The Switch OLED features a larger 7-inch 720p OLED display, making it slightly bigger than the base Switch’s 6.2-inch screen, but thanks to the smaller bezels (the black frame around the screen) it’s nearly the same physical dimensions as the previous Switch – it’s 242mm long, as compared to the original’s 239mm. The Switch OLED also beefs up the storage, doubling it from the original Switch’s tiny 32GB to… a still pretty small 64GB. Of course, we have the same option to expand it with a MicroSD card (the slot for which has been shifted slightly).The crown jewel of the Switch OLED is, of course, the quality of the display itself. The OLED display is a significant change to the original Switch and vastly improves playing in handheld mode. As disappointed as I was to hear that Nintendo decided to keep a 720p resolution in handheld mode for this revision, it’s still a major step up in not only how good games look, but where they look good.Specifically, the Switch OLED makes it a lot easier to play games in direct sunlight. No longer must we seek out dark corners to play in, or shield the screen while playing in the backseat of a car or on a plane! While not as bright as, say, the display on my new iPhone 13 Pro when at maximum brightness, I can now more comfortably bring my Switch outside with me and play a few hours while kicking back on my hammock. The display hits a sweet spot that makes it more of an incentive to take it with me wherever I go, making the Switch feel more mobile than ever and living up to the “play anywhere” promise.As someone who mostly plays my launch model Switch docked, this made a massive difference for me right away. After playing just a couple of games I felt spoiled by the additional screen real estate, and it was harder to go back to my 2017 Switch. On top of everything else, the slightly bigger display also makes the on-screen text a little bigger; that may not be a massive difference to most people, but when doing a side-by-side comparison with the original Switch it is clear as day.To summarize the key differences between LCD and OLED, each has its own methods to light up and display an image on the screen. LCD displays typically use one backlight to light up an entire panel whereas OLEDs have self-lit pixels and display light on a pixel-by-pixel basis, which allows for deeper blacks and more vivid colors.Additionally, while OLED displays are known for having greater issues with burn-in, a Nintendo spokesperson says features like auto-brightness and auto-sleep should prevent burn-in from happening on the Switch OLED. Naturally, I haven’t been able to test this over the course of a week. But, considering auto-brightness and auto-sleep are options that can be turned off, burn-in could still pose a threat – but you really have to go out of your way to make it happen.The Switch OLED doesn’t just look better – it feels better, too. From the display’s glass screen to the revised kickstand, it does not feel cheaply made in any sense. The Joy-Cons also feel more securely attached than on my original Switch model, where they’ve always felt a little bit loose, especially at the bottom.One catch is that, due to its extra three millimeters in length, some of your original Switch’s accessories may have compatibility issues. While any Joy-Cons will fit the Switch OLED – including third-party controllers like the Hori Split Pad Pro – some controller grips, third-party docks/mounts, and cases may not fit; I would not recommend forcing the OLED into any of these things to make it work.Spending roughly a week with the Switch OLED, primarily in handheld mode, I could easily tell that the screen made games a lot more vibrant. At peak brightness, the OLED really pulls me in on the action and, more importantly, it just makes games look more colorful. Tracks like Rainbow Road in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe look a lot brighter and more vivid. By comparison, when I went back to playing on my original Switch the same course looked colorful but dim, even when adjusting the brightness and disabling auto-brightness. I also found that colorful, cartoony games like New Pokemon Snap and WarioWare: Get it Together! really shine on the new screen.Even the darker and grimmer Metroid Dread benefits a lot from the OLED display. There are some sections that have darker blacks and subtly gray areas, particularly in the sections where an EMMI is patrolling, and the OLED’s ability to display absolute black made those areas eerier and creepier. And then there’s Samus Aran herself, whose white and bright blue power suit stands in stark contrast to the environment around her.The Nintendo Switch OLED also adds a new feature not found in the original Switch or Switch Lite, called Console-Screen Colors. It’s enabled by default but is toggleable in the settings menu and has two options: the default Vivid and a reduced Standard option. While I thought at first the Standard mode would revert the console’s brightness and colors to look more like the original Switch, that is not the case. Instead, Console-Screen Colors serve one purpose: to increase the level of brightness and color saturation, particularly in lighter colors. So games like Animal Crossing: New Horizons look noticeably brighter, with bright-colored items and clothes given a lot more color, and they feel like they must be truer to the color scheme its creators intended it to display.However, Console-Screen Colors does bring up one issue I have with the OLED model: the feature only changes how colors are displayed on the Switch OLED itself – meaning it won’t impact docked mode, even if you’re playing on an OLED TV. Still, this almost-hidden feature really does make the OLED the best way to experience handheld Switch games to date.Unfortunately, there’s a reason that Console-Screen Colors is a togglable setting rather than something you’d leave on all of the time. All the additional vibrancy it brings can occasionally go too far, causing some games to have oversaturated colors. I found this to be an issue in games that were already pushing saturation to the limits, like Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. I saw a few instances where some oversaturation of color made slight differences to the saturation of backgrounds, particularly in the opening title screen. It’s not to the point of obviousness, but it was definitely noticeable when flicking the Console-Screen Colors option on and off.It can be annoyingly inconsistent, even within the same game. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, for instance, looks great in some areas with vivid colors enabled, but when I was roaming the open world, the color of the cel-shaded grass felt a bit oversaturated. It is a case-by-case thing for sure, but it can be distracting.All that said, I could not help but feel – at least in the case of the OLED display – some real “this should have been here since 2017” energy. The fact that the PlayStation Vita, a handheld released back in 2012, had an OLED display (albeit a smaller one than the Switch OLED) makes me wonder if an OLED display was up for consideration in the original Switch. It definitely would’ve been more expensive, but Nintendo doesn’t seem to have a problem with charging $350 in 2021. (Granted, that’s easier for it to have the confidence to do now that the Switch is its best-selling console since the Wii).OLED display aside, the latest Switch refresh makes some other smaller, yet appreciated improvements to the overall design. The speakers on the Switch OLED are slightly bigger, but to be honest I did not find the slightly clearer and louder sound quality to be that big of a difference for the most part – not something I’d have noticed if I weren’t doing side-by-side testing.Battery life remains mostly the same, as noted on Nintendo’s website. Though some games I tested, like Breath of the Wild, did last a few minutes longer than the 5.5 hours Nintendo estimated, other games, like Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, were closer to the 5-hour mark (an improvement over the 2019 Switch, which gave out at 4 hours and 50 minutes). Again, from what I could find, the battery life improvements are modest and mostly just a few extra minutes.The Switch OLED has the same 3.5mm audio jack on the right side of the console, as well as the long-awaited Bluetooth audio feature (which is now enabled on all Switch models through a software update). I was able to seamlessly connect my Apple AirPods, though your Bluetooth performance and mileage may vary depending on the wireless headphones or earbuds you are using.Outside of the display, my favorite improvement to the Switch OLED is easily the new kickstand. Taking some cues from Microsoft’s Surface Pro line, the Switch OLED kickstand is a lot firmer and more flexible, offering more angles at which you can set the Switch up without risking it falling flat if you bump the table. Its increased width means any worries or anxiety over breaking the kickstand are gone in the OLED model, which makes it a lot easier to play multiplayer games like Super Mario Party in tabletop mode.Most of the improvements for the Switch OLED are on the handheld side of things, but there are some minor changes for those who prefer playing the Switch on a TV, including a revised dock. Aside from coming in a new white color, the dock has curved corners and the inside includes a glossy black design. The new dock includes a bit more space than the original, which may help compensate for the issues the original docking station had with scratching the Switch’s display when placing it inside, though there is a tradeoff: the Switch now wobbles a bit while docked. Not to the point where you will risk disconnecting it from the TV, but I noticed it when comparing it to my old Switch dock, which has no wobble at all.The revised Switch dock still has the two USB ports on the left side, but the back is a little different from the original in that it includes a detachable backplate instead of a back door with a hinge, and the backplate also includes a bigger outline for cables than the old dock. I found the material on the revised dock’s backplate to feel a little cheaper than the original, and I miss the hinge that attaches the backplate to the Switch dock.A year and a half after release, the Nintendo Switch has delivered on its initial promise of allowing us to play high-quality games both at home and on the go – it just hasn’t gone much further than that. Being able to play its absurdly impressive (and still rapidly growing) library of both first and third-party games seamlessly on a TV and a handheld device is just as great as I hoped it would be, even if some design flaws have cropped up since we first got our hands on it. The Switch doesn’t have all the entertainment and social features people have come to expect from a home console, but that doesn’t stop it from being a disruptively good gaming machine with some of the best exclusives of this generation. - Tom Marks, September 28, 2018Read the full Nintendo Switch ReviewThe revised dock also ditches the third USB port in favor of a LAN port, a welcome addition through which you can connect directly to a Wi-Fi extender or router via an Ethernet cable. I have a pretty solid internet connection and speeds, but that connection is only as strong as the weakest link in the chain that connects to the internet. For the original Switch dock, the only way to do that out of the box (without buying an adapter) was over Wi-Fi, which is generally not going to be nearly as fast as a wired connection. Games like Cuphead and Sonic Mania would take about 40-50 minutes to download on my Wi-Fi connection, but over LAN they take roughly 15-30 minutes.The LAN port also vastly improves stability in games that have online functionality. I’ve always had lag when playing online for Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Mario Tennis Aces, and Splatoon 2 on my launch Switch, but I noticed no lagging or internet issues on my end when connected to an Ethernet port. (Note that Nintendo will sell the new docking station separately at a later date, so you do not need to spend $350 for a whole new Switch if that’s all you want, though you’d be better off buying the $30 adapter if you’re not annoyed by a dongle hanging off your dock).
Metroid Dread Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/metroid-dread-review-nintendo-switch|Metroid Dread first turned up in 2005 – it even got a name drop in a terminal in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. In many ways, the re-announced, presumably reworked Metroid Dread of 2021 feels like that 2D-ish Metroid game we should have gotten 16 years ago, following two masterpiece Metroid games, Zero Mission and Prime. It’s not often we get to say this about a game that emerges from more than a decade of development purgatory, but the wait has been worth it: The epic delay allows Metroid Dread to use the Switch’s power to greatly improve on what could have been accomplished on previous Nintendo systems, and makes the supposed conclusion to Metroid’s mainline story something of a grand finale.Everything works in handheld form, but you really have to dock the system to get the full 2D-style Metroid experience on your TV that we’ve been missing in the three decades since Super Metroid on the Super Nintendo (that said, Zero Mission looks pretty cool emulated on the Virtual Console). Playing on a big, HD screen reveals sprawling alien scenes in diorama-like backgrounds, lit by the dynamic glow of Samus’s arsenal and projectiles. Also thanks to the Switch, the action never seems to drop a frame. That’s important, since combat is lightning fast, and just keeps getting faster with each powerup. Everything seems to speed up as you move through Metroid Dread. Upgrades add to your movement, and reduce backtracking time with boosts, dashes, and jumps, all while you’re making incredibly short work of once-powerful enemies with your new arsenal.One issue I had with the last Metroid, the 3DS remake of Samus Returns, was the cramped controls of the 3DS hindering the action – especially the new, twitchy combat. That combat makes a return in Dread, but here on the Switch it’s much more comfortable – and more fun. The counter system from Samus Returns, which requires careful timing to react to enemies visibly foreshadowing their attacks, is just one of many moves including dashes, feints, dodges, and timed-charge attacks that make up your bag of tricks, and that can take up a lot of buttons. It’s not bad on the Switch in handheld mode, but Dread only really shines with the Pro Controller. If I had to beat a boss – and these are some of the toughest bosses in Metroid history – I docked every time.Those boss fights range from the traditional big, drooling monsters with patterns and weak points to learn, to almost Smash Bros.-esque encounters with enemies that mimic your move set. The variation is welcome, especially in contrast to the way Samus Returns pitted you against the same boss bugs many times over. I don’t want to give anything away, but these are some of the best boss fights I’ve ever played in an action platformer: Without exception,they seemed impossible at first, but post-victory, I felt like they’d made me a better player.One repeated encounter you’ll have is with the creepy, crawling EMMI bots which you might have seen a lot of in previews of Metroid Dread. These are less what you’d think of as boss fights and more akin to stealth missions (and sometimes a manic race to the finish line if you are spotted). The EMMI pursuing you transform entire regions of the map into one-hit-kill zones (you do have a small window of escape, but it’s vanishingly small) – which makes another new-to-Metroid feature of Dread, auto saving, which triggers just outside the EMMI zones, extremely welcome.While it’s been marketed as a remake of Metroid II: The Return of Samus for Game Boy, Metroid: Samus Returns is more of a much-needed reboot of the 2D Metroid games we know and love. It’s a safe, modern take on Super Metroid, one of the greatest games of all time. Aside from some repetitive boss fights and hand-cramping controls, it’s nearly everything I could ask for as a fan of old-school Metroids. - Samuel Claiborn, Sep 12, 2017Read the full Metroid: Samus Returns Nintendo 3DS ReviewOne aspect of boss fights that I’m not too keen on, however, is the use of counters as quick-time events: Timed button-pressing sequences that you must complete to transition to another stage of a boss fight. It is often impossible to discern whether you even need to be shooting a boss while you await its next counter-able move. I would like to be able to use my 200-some stock of missiles to just destroy a boss the old-fashioned way; what am I collecting all those missile tanks for if I can’t even barrage a boss with overwhelming firepower once in a while?Speaking of collectibles, the many ways missile tanks and other upgrades are hidden is exquisite. There are some truly inscrutable puzzles that left me pondering between play sessions, and going for a 100% run is a great way to experience the intricate way the world is put together. The Speed Booster and Shinespark moves are especially conducive to mind-bending puzzles and require incredibly precise, split-second platforming that’s both fun to figure out and gratifying to (finally) pull off. By employing some classic Metroid moves, like bomb jumping, I was even able to “sequence break” and get some upgrades I couldn’t even use yet, which made me feel like a badass. That kind of flexibility and freedom made the world feel that much more welcoming to exploration and experimentation.If you aren’t a completionist, you can choose to shoot through Metroid Dread in a shorter burst. According to the game log, I spent 11 hours on my first run, reaching 82% completion – but that figure clearly excludes pause screens, which you might spend a lot of time on because the map itself has been overhauled and tracks mysterious things you can’t interact with, items you saw but didn’t obtain, and rooms with a secret you didn’t even spot. I pored over the map screen frequently to discover secrets, but also to discover my next step. I suspect that many will turn to a strategy guide for the latter, since Metroid Dread does very little to direct you to your next objective. As a general opponent of hand-holdy waypoints, I like this change – especially in a game that emphasizes probing every block. In addition to the tricked-out map, you also get a scanning tool that’s balanced just the right way to give you clues to secret paths but doesn’t lead you around by the armcannon.The map, and really the world itself, morphs a few times, too – especially in the later game. I won’t spoil any late-game tricks for you, but while they aren’t quite to the scale of Castlevania: Symphony of the Night’s upside-down castle, the new routes you’ll have to work out and the enemy obstacles you’ll encounter are all quite cool.I’m not sure I needed another length of game added onto the end of this, anyway. As my fellow editor Kat Bailey put it, Samus Returns overstayed its welcome – and it was stretched a bit thin by the end, with repetitive bosses and a map that took a while to make your way across. Dread learns from that mistake and gets the pacing right, ramping up the speed at which you get new tools and access new map areas to something of a fever pitch. It’s up to you to pick a point, take a breath, and backtrack if you’d like. Otherwise, you can power on through to the end. (You will absolutely want to bring as many ammo and life upgrades with you as possible, though – again, these bosses are no joke!).In my review of the Nintendo Switch OLED, I was able to test out Metroid Dread. While playing in handheld, I quickly noticed how much Metroid Dread benefits from the Switch's OLED display. Some sections have darker blacks and subtly gray areas, particularly in the sections where an EMMI is patrolling, and the OLED's ability to display absolute black made those areas eerier and creepier. Even Samus Aran herself, whose bright blue power suit stands in stark contrast to the environment around her, regardless of which area she is roaming around. Check out my further impressions in the full Nintendo Switch OLED Model review. - Taylor LylesOne point at which Metroid Dread slows down a bit too much, though, are thinly veiled load screens between areas – elevators, trams, and teleporters. These hard transitions break up the world more than in previous games, which is one spot where the Switch’s 2016 hardware catches up with Dread’s ambition.Earlier this year there was a bit of ballyhoo around this being the final chapter of at least one Metroid storyline, and whatever you are thinking that means, it’s crazier. Unlike the Prime series and other spinoffs, this is a “mainline” Metroid game – the fifth since 1986’s Metroid – and though the story is sparse (probably for the best after some hammy diversions like Metroid: Other M), it supposedly wraps up here. Despite the twistier elements of the plot, there is one series-peak moment when Samus does something completely unexpected. It’s subtle, and it’s lovely, and I can’t wait for fans to experience it. That subtlety extends to much of the story, as well. There isn’t a lot to it: A bounty hunter, a bunch of innocent but very hungry aliens, and of course a new reason for how you lost all your great weapons and equipment.I found it refreshing that, where games like Other M went way too far building out the world of Metroid and ended up with some pretty awkward results, Dread shuts that world out and focuses. Instead, Dread is grounded in a story about Samus and the vanished birdlike alien race that raised her, the Chozo. It’s an approach that reminds me of series greats, Metroid Prime and Zero Mission. And those Chozo? They sure built a lot of subterranean tunnels for a race equipped with wings, but we can let that slide.
Astria Ascending Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/astria-ascending-review|There is always something exciting about playing a brand new JRPG that isn’t from one of the popular franchises we already know and love, mostly to see how it differentiates itself from the pack. But while Astria Ascending’s turn-based combat is excellent, its mediocre story and weak quest design drag it down. It has plenty of amusing things going for it, but those shortcomings keep it from becoming the breakout JRPG it had the potential to be.Astria Ascending puts a side-scrolling twist on a more traditional, turn-based RPG shell. You’ll explore its world of Orchanon as a 2D platformer, entering separate rooms, collecting treasures, and encountering enemies as you travel across the screen. But while its presentation is novel, its story setup is something we’ve seen several times before: you play as Ulan, the leader of the 333rd company of Demi-Gods trying to stop an uncompelling chaotic threat that wants to remove harmony from the world.Each of your party members has their own bigger motivation too, but in general, the story is just so cliche. Astria Ascending’s world has a unique look and its races are freshly designed, but their differences are only skin deep. Because of this, the main cast suffers from bland dialogue and a lack of personality, making them uninteresting to spend dozens of hours with.And like so many other JRPG stories, their struggle is against yet another syndicate of generic villains that want to destroy the world for some weak, unconvincing reason. That isn’t to say that this story structure never works, because it does have entertaining or heartfelt moments here and there. Many party members have family tied into the events in ways that could be compelling, but with how vague a lot of the plot points are left, those potential hooks were never actually able to grab my interest.Unsurprisingly, completing your quest will mean venturing into a handful of puzzle-filled dungeons. Some of these require you to take advantage of basic elemental powers to solve them, like using wind to move boxes to their correct position. But most aren’t that engaging due to their simplicity. Dungeons are usually structured the same too: each has a boss known as an Astrae that you can summon in battle once you’ve defeated it, followed by another boss at the end, leaving them a little too predictable to make your way through.The repetition is shaken up a bit relatively deep into the story by a section where you shoot enemies in the sky like a side scrolling shooter, but it’s too little too late. You only ever see this twist between specific locations in the latter half of the story, and by that point you’ll already have progressed so far that its introduction feels random and disjointed.As you explore Orchanon, you will also find plenty of side quests, but these are similarly straightforward and uninspired, doing little to make the world feel fleshed out. You’ll often be asked to defeat a certain number of enemies or find the quest giver a specific item, and little else. While none of them are very interesting, additional guild missions that task you with killing special enemies for money, experience, and skill points can be. Every enemy type has distinct abilities so fighting these minibosses adds even more variety to the creatures that you face, which is especially welcome when combat is the shining star here.Astria Ascending really stands out in its battles and its art style. Every zone is drop dead gorgeous, especially in dungeons. Since it’s presented as a 2D platformer outside of fights, the world of Orchanon feels as if it was created in a story book – each of its characters drawn with tender love and care, and they especially shine in combat. Whether it be an attack, spell, buff, or status effect, everything is animated immaculately and with purpose.The combat itself is some of the best I’ve seen in a traditional turn-based JRPG. This is due to the excellent Focus mechanic, which makes the party gain Focus Points when striking an enemy’s weakness. Focus can stack up, allowing you to deal an abundance of damage once it maxes out. But while you’re collecting Focus, enemies can hit your weaknesses and do the exact same thing, raising the stakes the longer a fight goes on. You’ll also have to be careful since using the wrong attack on an enemy will make you lose Focus, adding an extra layer of tension to each fight. Mix that exciting system with the art and animations and it truly makes combat an impressive package.Almost every encounter feels like a challenge that is satisfying to conquer too. An intuitive job system provides a wide variety of abilities to use, and planning your team’s powers is where Astria Ascending’s true puzzles lie. Members of your party begin with a starting job but will gain three more throughout the story, which provides them with a myriad of different skills to mix and match based on your personal preference and the weaknesses of the enemies you are facing.Unfortunately, Astria Ascending also comes with some horrendous difficulty spikes. This means you’ll occasionally need to spend a significant amount of time grinding to get past tough enemies. There is at least a difficulty option that can be lowered if you’re not willing to deal with these annoying spikes – but on the normal difficulty, it’s not uncommon to spend multiple hours leveling just to get past one specific fight only to have to do it again for a different one not too far down the road.
Diablo 2: Resurrected Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/diablo-2-resurrected-review|Activision Blizzard is currently facing serious ongoing allegations of harassment and mistreatment of marginalized workers. To learn more, please visit our timeline as well as our in-depth report on the subject.Nothing more than a coat of fresh paint over the old masterpiece, Diablo 2: Resurrected is a curious piece of video game restoration. After a hundred hours smashing demons, I've kicked Diablo to the curb a couple times and I'm thoroughly reacquainted with the good and the bad that the most revered game in Blizzard’s action RPG series has to offer. As someone who played more than my fair share of Diablo 2 between 2000 and 2007, Resurrected absolutely scratches an itch for the golden age of this genre. At the same time, it's blatantly a game from an era where the demands on our time were very different than what we’ve seen in the past decade. In the face of concessions that modern games have made towards fun, Diablo 2's insistence on grind and unforgiving systems and 20-year-old bugs can just make me feel… tired. Satisfied, but tired.What doesn't age? The mood. The completely redone graphics of Resurrected do so much more than a simple homage to the original game, adding a whole third dimension as well as 4K-friendly environment details that were just out of the question in the 800x600 2D graphics of 2000. Locations like the Monastery Gates in Act 1, an outdoor area that was always a bit weird from an isometric point of view, now have visible roofs on the buildings instead of just a black sea beyond the walls. There’s a wealth of detail in every scene, in the monsters, and in character models, that really makes me appreciate the ability to dynamically switch between the old and new graphics to see the contrast.Beautifully, when you switch to the classic graphics you switch to the original sound as well, though the difference is nowhere near as stark here because it didn’t need any significant updating. Aside from a bit of remastering it is identical to the original, and it’s still phenomenal. The ping when a gem hits the floor, the whirl of weapons, and the guttural demon voices ("Rakanishu!") are iconic sound design. This is not to mention the remasters of the classic soundtrack, or the new remixes, which are beautiful work. (The voice acting, well... let's just say it was a different time. At least Deckard Cain and Tyrael are great – oh, and Baal in the expansion. That awful laugh still creeps right up under my skin.)In the “aged, but mostly gracefully” column we have the arc of Diablo 2's story, which is good, but it's not as good as I fondly remembered. The first two acts are really fun, and each quest is a dark, gothic fantasy vignette, while Act 3 is a great sprawling jungle crawl with lots of little dungeons sprinkled around. Act 4, however, is boring as dirt. The NPCs don't have any flavor dialogue, let alone personality, while the quests and the areas are entirely linear. I have no idea how a story about invading Hell itself could be boring, but Diablo 2 somehow did it. Thankfully, things pick up again with the Lord of Destruction expansion's Act 5. It's a bit rushed, but it's a good time.I chose a Paladin from the seven available classes as my first character for my grand return to Diablo 2. This is because for two decades I’ve maintained a personal grudge against the dung beetle soldiers in Act 2 – you know, the ones that poop lightning when you hit them. The Paladin's lightning resistance aura allows me to laugh in their faces and kill them in humiliating ways, and it’s been everything I thought it could be.That's part of the charm of Diablo 2, and it's still great design today. Some enemies are just immune to certain damage types, forcing you to diversify your build (or your co-op party). Others will burn out your mana in seconds, meaning spellcasters have to keep their distance while melee has to figure out how to win without active abilities. There's masochistic joy in overcoming the escalating challenges, especially when the escalation goes exponential as you break into Nightmare and Hell difficulties for character levels 30 to 99 or so. There’s no shame if you’ve had your fill before then and tap out, or start a new character for a fresh run, but Diablo 2 keeps on giving if you do.The heart of Diablo 2 is still the multiplayer. Singleplayer is a fun dungeon crawl, but the difficulty and action feels best when you've got others along. Cooperative PvE runs to defeat bosses and farm good loot are where Resurrected shines most. The loot system is unreliable and random, assuming that players will trade items across games and characters to get what they need. The new, larger shared stash helps you do that, a small update that supports the original game rather than changing it. Building synergetic characters with a regular group is really rewarding, and classes like Paladin and Assassin only truly shine in a crew.There's also PvP, a niche and extremely hardcore Diablo 2 scene that's already starting to reestablish itself with its winner-take-all brawls. Personally, I fear these people, but I've already seen some impressive collections of ear trophies and unique weapons on social media.Some of the mechanical ideas feel old-school relative to how things are done in action RPGs these days, but that doesn’t make them bad. For instance, you only get two active skills at once. It seems archaic – and it is – but what was a technical and game design constraint at the time is pretty fun when you get past the clunkiness. You have to choose skills carefully, as having too many might just give you a huge toolkit you're not fast enough to use. There's a lot of juggling between powers. I like to smash my Paladin into the enemy packs with a Charge before switching to Zeal for a series of rapid blows, or Vengeance for elementally infused strikes that take down monsters resistant to physical attacks. For tough elite groups, I'll switch weapons and throw gas grenades to weaken them before I head in. All the while I'm swapping auras from attack speed to elemental resistances as I need them and keeping my holy shield buff up every 30 seconds.I also picked up a cool polearm-wielding desert mercenary sidekick. If you need any indication that it's very much still Diablo 2 under all of these fancy graphics, don't worry: He's still stupid as a sack of bricks and gets stuck on walls constantly. That’s one of those date technical issues that might have been addressed.There’s no shortage of options for skills and abilities, and part of the delight of Diablo 2 is that it has a skill tree system you can use to build some truly strange characters. It's flexible enough that you can make ranged builds for the melee characters, like a crossbow Paladin that shoots explosive bolts. How about a Barbarian focused on the War Cry skill, who just runs around shouting until everything dies? How about a Sorceress who enchants weapons rather than nukes enemies from a distance? I've always wanted to try and make a Necromancer tank, personally – maybe I’ll finally get around to it.There’s a ton of freedom… that is, if you're willing to discard 20 years of accumulated Diablo 2 wisdom and take your chances. In many ways this game is “solved,” in that the best builds and their precise itemization have been thoroughly sussed out over the years. In other words, there are right and wrong decisions, but you won’t know that unless you look it up or spend a lot of time failing.You're welcome to play like it's 2000 and not search out optimal builds, especially when playing on Normal. You can clear the campaign with pretty much anything if you're dedicated enough, though once you're in Hardcore or Hell difficulty melee characters are very dependent on getting good items to progress at any pace other than a snail's.  However, while I'd normally encourage you to go in blind and experiment for yourself, I won't in this case because some of Diablo 2's design falls squarely into the “hasn't aged well” category. For example, there are copious skill traps for new players, meaning that some abilities you might be tempted to choose don't scale well past the early game, or aren't useful unless you understand their synergies with other skills you won’t unlock until much later.Additionally, some straight-up broken things, like the infamous Next Hit Always Misses bug, have been retained in the name of keeping the flavor of Diablo 2 the same as it’s always been – but that’s something few people know about unless they do their homework. Unfortunately, this faithfulness to the original’s bugs seems to be without limits: Skills like the Amazon's Fend and Druid's Fury are still bugged, breaking when interacting with other common mechanics. These are known, documented bugs that have locked off entire character skills for 20 years. Why are they still in this game? Wouldn’t it have been wonderful and fresh to let us explore that still-undiscovered country?  To its credit, it's worth saying that I've encountered barely any new bugs specific to Resurrected, and those I have seen have been minor graphical glitches that don't affect gameplay – things like doors that don't change visually when opened but can still be passed through, or an object overlaying a texture strangely. Nothing out of the ordinary for a modern game.I’m a little sad to see that Resurrected has retained Diablo 2’s arcane skill-reset system: You get just one respec per difficulty level, and the only way to get more is by farming the big bosses for rare items and then shoving them in your Horadric Cube. Unlimited respecs would've been a prime candidate for overhaul to make Resurrected more accessible to a new generation and mitigate the skill trap issue, and it’s something that could have been easily disabled for ladder play.It's a bit galling things like that weren’t addressed because the other big update in Resurrected is a similar quality-of-life change. Rather than picking up gold stack by stack, you instead automatically grab it when you pass by. There's a difference between preserving the experience and maintaining a lack of respect for our time, and this change shows that a small tweak can go a long way towards removing tedium from the original game without ruining anything.The moment-to-moment gameplay that made Diablo 2 legendary in its time, though, is completely unchanged. Exploration and combat still feel deeply familiar; it’s a festival of clicking (or, now, thumbsticking – great on both PC and console) where you want to go and hammering out hits on your enemies. It's as wild and chaotic as an isometric action RPG ever is, but in the long view, over 20 years of game design innovation later, it's also kind of… slow. Characters don't move quickly, and running is limited by your stamina bar. Copious and consistent use of town portal scrolls (which both warp you back to base and let you return) generally avoids having to backtrack, but when you have to it's annoying at best. Running also makes your character worse at blocking, if they have a shield.Because of that, I didn't make it out of Act 1 without looking up the combination of slotted runes that produces armor with a bonus to Run/Walk speed, if only for – again – my own quality of life. At times, Diablo 2 feels like fighting against bad game design from the late ‘90s, which could also be described as “the forces of Hell.” For example, loot in online multiplayer is shared so anybody in your party can pick it up if they get there first – which I've got nothing against – but the careful etiquette of who gets what isn't reinforced by anything in the rules. I’ve already seen a lot of ninja-looting, and it sucks – and it's exacerbated by controllers, which can ironically loot faster than mouse and keyboard setups.Having to fight against the basic game mechanics like this isn't fun in 2021, and it'll be worse for new Diablo 2 players who expect this kind of thing to be dealt with by game designers instead of all of us deciding on unenforceable rules of etiquette.I've got other problems, myself: How can Blizzard justify dropping support for LAN play? Why can't I clone a multiplayer character into single-player? The latter is especially concerning, seeing as the servers have been temperamental at times and I’d rather not have to start from scratch when I want to play but the cloud doesn’t.But none of those devils in the details has overcome the fact that it's definitely fun. Diablo 2's design has aged remarkably well as an example of a relatively uncomplicated isometric action RPG. Everyone has skills, yes, but they all interact with the same systems: Health, Mana, Stats. There's no unique currency or meter to learn for every class, and combos are things you build rather than things you get from chains of esoteric item abilities and arcane end-game progression mechanics. It's just a skill tree, a billion demons, and an infinite fountain of equipment. It is, as ever, a satisfying game.
Super Monkey Ball: Banana Mania Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/super-monkey-ball-banana-mania-review|Nostalgia is a funny thing. It can be a comforting sensation, but it sometimes makes things from the past seem better than they actually are. Unfortunately, the latter is the case with Super Monkey Ball: Banana Mania, which compiles over 300 levels from previous Super Monkey Ball games and updates them for modern consoles. I have fond memories of playing the GameCube versions with friends nearly 20 years ago, so I expected Banana Mania to be a welcome return to those carefree nights staying out past curfew and rolling down increasingly difficult courses. Sadly, rollin’ just isn’t as fun as it used to be.As the name implies, Super Monkey Ball is a series about monkeys in balls rolling their way through hundreds of stages and avoiding increasingly difficult obstacles – and yes, it’s exactly as silly as it sounds. The GameCube-era graphics have gotten an overhaul that makes the cartoony art style more vibrant than ever, and I found it hard not to bop my head to the arcadey theme music. It’s always refreshing to see games that don’t take themselves too seriously in this era of increasingly realistic graphics and serious subject matter, and Super Monkey Ball is anything but serious.Because Banana Mania is a mash-up of several previous Super Monkey Ball games, there appears to be an almost overwhelming amount of content at first. There’s the Story mode originally seen in Super Monkey Ball 2, which is less a cohesive campaign than it is about 100 levels across 10 worlds loosely stitched together with brief, dialogue-free animated cutscenes. Challenge modes from the first two Super Monkey Ball games appear as well, although the separate modes have some startlingly similar courses. And of course, Challenge mode doesn’t feel significantly different from Story mode gameplay-wise because the only twist is that you can’t pick up where you left off — you have to get through all of the challenge stages in a single sitting. So it’s more a challenge of endurance than anything else.The problem with both the Story and Challenge modes is that, after 30 or 40 levels, they both begin to feel like a slog. The difficulty in Story mode really ramps up around the halfway point, going from light and breezy to a frustrating exercise in failure very quickly. Early levels might challenge you to make your way around a winding path or keep your momentum going long enough to clear a gap; later on, you’ll be thrust into the air by spring-loaded platforms and fail the level before you even have a chance to adjust the camera to see a hazard you didn’t know would come at you from that direction.That’s exactly what happened in one of the levels that made me want to pull my hair out: before me stood a towering theme park ride made up of platforms connected to a pole in the middle. Because you can only tilt the camera up so far, I couldn’t see where the finish line was — instead, I had to roll onto a ground-level platform that thrust my ball upwards and try to figure it out in the air. The first time, I was thrown directly into a connecting pole and bounced off the map before I even had a chance to move. Other attempts ended after I landed on one of the higher platforms and bounced right off again. When I finally managed to land in the right place and stay put, it didn’t feel like I’d mastered the obstacles of that particular level; it felt like a lucky run that I wasn’t sure if I’d be able to replicate. If only a few levels were designed like this it’d be easier to dismiss that feeling, but after the halfway point most of them start to feel this way.And while the environments and backgrounds might be fun and colorful, much of the playable level design is repetitive and uninspired. The more I played past a certain point, the more it felt like a chore. What’s especially draining is that after finishing a particularly difficult level, there’s no satisfying adrenaline rush that accompanies overcoming a challenge — just a sense of relief that it’s finally over. Super Monkey Ball could’ve learned a thing or two from Peggle about dispensing serotonin.It’s telling that the developers actually included a couple of ways to deal with particularly tough levels. There’s a Helper mode that doubles the time limit and provides a visual path to the goal, which can be useful but usually doesn’t negate the bigger issues. It’s usually not a matter of understanding where the end goal is — getting there through trial and error or dumb luck is the problem. I can’t tell you how many times I just blindly rolled forward as quickly as possible, hoping that it would get me closer to the end, because every other strategy ended in failure. There’s also the option to skip a stage entirely, which is especially nice because it ensures that you’re never stuck on one frustrating level for too long – assuming that you don’t run out of the points you need to pay your way.You can earn points in various ways, but the most prominent are simply beating levels and completing certain challenges, like collecting all of the bananas in a stage. The Point Shop is where you’ll use those to unlock new characters, adding to the initial six-character roster of AiAi and his monkey menagerie. (Every character plays the same, but at least they look different.) You can even unlock a few non-monkey characters from other Sega games, like Sonic the Hedgehog, Jet Set Radio’s Beat, and Kazuma Kiryu of Yakuza fame, and playing as one of them even changes the bananas on each level to items from their respective games — rings for Sonic, spray paint cans for Beat. It’s a thoughtful touch, although the flipside is that these special characters can’t be customized with new outfits like the monkeys can.Looking back at my personal experience, the Super Monkey Ball games have always been at their best as party games, and that continues to be the case with Banana Mania. Party mode has a dozen mini-games, and most of them are genuinely fun and have surprising depth when played against other humans; for example, the Mario Kart-esque Monkey Race game has 12 tracks and multiple gameplay modes, and Monkey Golf has regular and mini-golf variations. Super Monkey Ball: Banana Mania is one of the few games to offer same-system multiplayer in a time when almost everything is online-only, making party mode easily its most redeeming quality.As a solo experience, however, Super Monkey Ball: Banana Mania falls flat. More than once, I found myself wondering why I had liked these games so much when they first came out. Playing on PS5, I even turned on motion controls to try to replicate the magic of the early Wii game Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz, but that was a complete disaster. The simplest tilt of the DualSense controller had stages careening to the left or right, sending my monkey balls flying. It’s a shame that Banana Mania didn’t live up to the Super Monkey Ball experience in my memories, but times have changed; maybe it’s time this series touched a strange black obelisk and evolved, too.
Outer Wilds: Echoes of the Eye Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/outer-wilds-echoes-of-the-eye-dlc-review|Exploring Outer Wilds’ stunning clockwork solar system in 2019 was truly something special, so getting the chance to return in a DLC expansion feels like Christmas came early – or, in this case, more like Halloween. Echoes of the Eye weaves one more thread worth pulling into the already complex tapestry of Outer Wilds, handily recapturing its charming, woodsy-sci-fi aesthetic and intricate time-loop puzzle solving, but this time with a creepier tone and a few sections that fully shift genres from adventure to horror game. That’s not exactly what I ended up wanting from more Outer Wilds, and its siloed nature does make it a little more linear to explore, but Echoes of the Eye is still a great reason to revisit this ever-exploding star.Before I dive in, a quick word about spoilers: I’m not going to get into specific plot points or puzzles solutions here, but I will discuss some of the new areas and mechanics. Anyone who has played the base game knows that much of the magic of Outer Wilds can come from the surprise of stumbling upon a thrilling discovery or witnessing one of its timed events from just the right spot. Echoes of the Eye is no exception, and I am going to preserve that surprise as much as possible, but those looking to go in entirely fresh should be warned that some of it will be mentioned by necessity."Outer Wilds’ tricky exploration and puzzle solving is definitely an acquired taste. Its very specific brand of active storytelling differs wildly from highly guided open-worlds that many of us think of when we talk about non-linear gameplay. Though it can be confounding at times when events don’t unfold in precisely the right way, the feeling of discovering something new about the story, or following a couple of facts to something totally unexpected on a faraway planet far outweighs those hiccups." - Mike Epstein, May 30, 2019Read the full Outer Wilds review.Echoes of the Eye cleverly integrates its new mysteries by pretending they’ve been there all along, hiding in the shadows. A new exhibit in the museum on Timber Hearth will point you toward a nearby research station monitoring a photo-taking satellite, and following that simple but exciting lead will eventually land you in a brand-new area with just as much to do as any of the base game’s planets. This setup does mean that Echoes of the Eye won’t have you bouncing around the solar system trying to piece together distant clues, which does make its discoveries a little more straightforward to unravel, but there are still plenty of intertwining secrets to find in this area alone.The bulk of this side adventure is basically a haunted river-rafting trip (which absolutely rules), with many of its puzzles and new mechanics built around using light. That includes the rafts you’ll be riding between locations, which have orbs you can shine your flashlight on to float in a specific direction, as well as locked doors that open when illuminated. It’s a neat little twist that sets how you navigate this area apart from the others, but it also maintains that same sense of wonder as things change in surprising ways at set times during each loop.The focus on light is also a clever choice because it ties perfectly into Echoes of the Eye’s spookier vibe, often forcing you to wander through the dark and occasionally making light a luxury you desperately wish you could afford. Avoiding spoilers as much as possible, this new area is essentially split in two: one half is much closer to the physics-bending, awe-inspiring planet exploration of the original game, while the other occasionally warps Outer Wilds into a proper horror game. I’m talking a “stumbling around in the dark trying to figure out how to progress while monsters hunt you” kind of horror game – and it sure does play that metaphorical screeching violin well.Outer Wilds has always had some creepier sections and the looming threat of death, but this tangible mechanical shift (while well implemented) isn’t one I was expecting, and ultimately wasn’t something I was too interested in compared to my previous planet hopping. I will freely admit that I am not generally into horror games overall, and those who are will almost certainly enjoy these sections more than I did, but that’s sort of the problem; these bits are so unlike the rest of Outer Wilds that they almost feel like an entirely different game – one that’s fun but far less unique, and pretty much just had me wishing I was playing more of its usual style instead.The horror sections are unavoidable, but thankfully not a huge part of the roughly seven hours Echoes of the Eye’s surprisingly hefty expansion took me to complete. (There is also a “Reduced Frights” menu option that makes these sequences a little less intense, which is a small but appreciated inclusion for those who actively dislike horror but love Outer Wilds, although not one that changes enough to truly solve that particular problem.) And genre be damned, the story told throughout this DLC is still an enthralling one. The self-contained structure and more linear layout of its locations does mean the pieces of that story are easier to assemble than the history of the base game’s Nomai, but that doesn’t mean they’re not fun to uncover all the same.
Hot Wheels Unleashed Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/hot-wheels-unleashed-review|Perhaps best described as a head-on collision between an itty-bitty Burnout and a tiny Trackmania Turbo, Hot Wheels Unleashed is an endearing arcade stunt racer that feels great and looks absolutely remarkable. With tracks creatively weaved through lavishly detailed, life-sized environments, and brimming with a catalogue of cars spilled straight out of the toy bucket, developer Milestone’s decision to double down on a brand of racing 64 times smaller than usual has been a consummate success.Highly accessible yet full of advanced techniques, devilish shortcuts, and creative tools to master, Hot Wheels Unleashed is one of the best, most customisable, and most imaginative arcade racers I’ve played in at least a decade.Hot Wheels Unleashed recreates the world’s most popular die-cast cars in their authentic scale, and in environments where they’re dwarfed by barn-sized basketballs and boom boxes as big as buildings. This makes Hot Wheels Unleashed more in line with pint-sized peers like 1998’s Hot Wheels Stunt Track Driver or 2007’s Hot Wheels Beat That! as opposed to styleless duds like Hot Wheels Turbo Racing or Hot Wheels World’s Best Driver, which simply super-sized the toys to race them like regular cars.Staying tiny was a terrific choice, and not simply because the atmosphere is endlessly more charming at toy scale; the 1:1 recreations of Hot Wheels cars here are regularly nothing short of stunning.The range leans towards more recent models – or, at least, recent versions of classic castings, like the iconic Twin Mill, and even a 50th anniversary version of the quirky Dodge Deora, one of the first 16 cars Hot Wheels ever made. There’s also a handful of real cars in the mix, which I think is great for variety and perfect for anyone who may not be huge fans of cars shaped like giant hamburgers. The small selection of film and TV cars are easily my favourites, though, and I don’t expect I’ll do much racing in anything but the Back to the Future DeLorean now that I’ve unlocked it.Finishing the campaign has given me some ultra-rare original models, which are great picks by Milestone. I do still have quite a few cars to unlock, though, and doing so is slow going because cars are only purchasable à la carte from a selection of five random models which rotates every four hours of play – not real time. That simply feels like too long; the only thing I want my kids to do for four consecutive hours is sleep. The remaining option is winning or purchasing blind boxes (which, thankfully, can only be bought with in-game currency) to try and get something different. Of course, the last time I saved up a pile of these I opened four of the same car in the space of a few minutes, which was deeply unsatisfying.That said, the car models themselves are simply gorgeous, and every one I’ve collected so far is an unflinchingly faithful recreation of the miniatures they represent, down to the tiniest details: the texture differences between plastic and lacquered metal parts; the subtle mould lines left from the assembly process; the broad range of paint finishes; the stamped text beneath the chassis carrying the model name and production year. I’m still finding myself just rotating them around, stopped in my tracks by how fantastic they look.As impressive as they are out of their boxes, they look even better after some doorhandle-to-doorhandle action out on track. Here’s where they really start to resemble the toy cars strewn around my youngest son’s room: chipped, scratched, and play-worn by the demands of their seven-year-old automotive overlord. The most striking thing is that damage hasn’t been applied thoughtlessly or randomly; cars correctly lose paint on their vulnerable corners and raised edges, faint scratches appear on larger flat surfaces, black plastic is revealed under the silver coating, and printed tampos are partially rubbed away. Under the right light, child-sized fingerprints can be observed – especially on windscreens – and even their plastic tyres become ringed with the kinds of gouges a pristine Hot Wheels car will pick up after an afternoon of pounding the pavement. Milestone’s success in making the cars look so credible is a huge part of what makes Hot Wheels Unleashed so joyful to play.This ridiculously good level of detail also extends to the environments themselves, from the scuffed and etched surfaces of the iconic soft plastic tracks to almost unnoticeable flourishes like air bubbles underneath hastily applied guardrail stickers. The backdrops are excellent, too – especially the vast cityscape buried in cloud that surrounds the construction site.What especially sells it is the outstanding lighting, which regularly comes from multiple sources all around each map, whether that’s the neon of a jukebox, brash fluorescent tubes, or the glaring sun itself. The lighting seats the cars into the environments outstandingly well.The level of granular detail seems to speak volumes about how deeply everything has been considered here, and it all combines to create an extremely believable miniature world. It’s sometimes a little hard to soak in at speed, but there’s a brilliant camera mode included to ogle it all up close. My only issue with the camera is that it seems tied to the track rather than the horizon, so anytime my car was racing upside-down or vertically, the camera axes become muddled and adjusting it to find the shot was a bit of a brain-breaking exercise.“Okay, Luke,” you’re probably saying. “It’s pretty and tugs at the heartstrings of the Hot Wheels faithful. But how does it play?” Fair! And you’ve probably been waiting for the other shoe to drop... but in a surprise twist, Hot Wheels Unleashed handles very well, actually. Its arcade-typical brake-to-drift racing is intuitive and easy to pick up, but there’s a lot of nuance hidden in its air controls. Once mastered – or, at least, moderately tamed – the air controls can be exploited to uncover sneaky shortcuts, sail over opponents, or salvage a misdirected jump. Boost builds nice and quickly, though the higher your car’s core stats are the less boost you’ll have at your disposal. This creates an interesting balancing act, as opting for a weaker car overall will give you more boost to compensate. Personally, I prefer to upgrade my cars as high as possible and work with fewer boosts, because I think I’m faster this way… I think.There are four levels of AI, and the slowest seems very tolerant of mistakes and a good starting point for the young or the less experienced. Medium proved to be a surprising jump for the kids in my household – it’s far less forgiving and they often found it tough to catch the pack after even a single respawn – but it was much more satisfying for me. Hard and above really demands upgraded cars.Tracks range from simple to highly technical, but track design is brilliant across the board. Constructed with curving and twisting stretches of Hot Wheels tracks but linked with segments of the environments themselves, one moment you’ll be powersliding across orange plastic and the next you’ll be whizzing across benches, air vents, shelves, and the floor itself, flanked by tiny cones. Particularly impressive is the use of every axis, with magnetic track making vertical climbs, drops, and even racing across the roof possible. It means that, while six maps doesn’t sound like a lot on paper, in practice the way Hot Wheels Unleashed utilises the layers of each level – and every nook and cranny they contain – keeps it feeling fresh throughout the duration of its mostly kid-friendly campaign.Every event has a lower-end goal that it will reward you for achieving and allow you to continue, but there are tougher goals for completionists – and some of the later time trials really forced me to experiment and search for high-risk shortcuts. I can only speak anecdotally, but so far Hot Wheels Unleashed has done a good job at entertaining both kids under 10 and a 40-year-old car nerd, although I feel like a few more race types would’ve been nice. Pursuits in little cop cars, or eliminations, or just... something else. As it stands, there are just races and time trials, and the online options seem barren as a result. That said, my kids have taken to playing a makeshift brand of tag in splitscreen on the floors of the maps. Splitscreen is two-player – not four, sadly – but it runs very smoothly on Xbox Series X and has been an absolute hoot.Even if you do get tired of the available tracks, Hot Wheels Unleashed features an extremely deep custom track editor to let you build and share your own. You’re not limited to just clicking together pre-set corners and lengths of track, either; tracks can be shortened, lengthened, tilted, twisted, curved, and buckled in any way you see fit, and elevated or dropped anywhere. It probably took me a full afternoon to come to grips with the tools, which are quite complex, but once I really learnt how to bend the editor to my will I was able to create Mt. Barf-O-Rama, a monster that wrapped itself around and through virtually every piece of furniture in my Hot Wheels-themed basement. I am expecting big things from the user created tracks.
Eastward Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/eastward-review|A man and his adopted daughter find their way through a whimsical, post-apocalyptic landscape. Frying pan and psychic powers at the ready, they might stumble into saving the world as they explore it. With all the stylings of a retro JRPG, you might expect Eastward to play like one, but this chill action-adventure is more Zelda than Dragon Quest. John and Sam's triumphs and mistakes take place in a charming pixel-art landscape that's rich with lovely characters and intimately designed places. Even where the story dragged for a time, or the simplicity of the challenges felt patronizing, the parts of Eastward that spoke to me more than made up for them.Our headliners are John – a silent protagonist wreathed in messy hair and a bushy beard – and Sam, an outrageously precocious girl with budding psychic powers and a penchant for getting the two into trouble. They're lovable characters with a bushel of personality and a kind of timeless appeal. They set off from their home under dubious circumstances, and, eventually, find their way... eastward. I loved switching between the two as they travel through a cute but dangerous apocalyptic world of small towns and dam-cities. Along the way you play through discrete story chapters and explore the stories of the people you meet. There are a lot – a lot – of silly little minigames along the way. Baseball, river rafting, slot machines, and ever-present cooking.The trek to the east is pretty linear, but the areas you explore are laid out like little dungeons, with curling paths to find your way through as you battle goofy monsters and solve simple puzzles. John does most of the fighting via simple but satisfying hack-and-slash action, but Sam's powers – like freezing enemies inside big psychic bubbles – are useful for fights and vital for puzzles.It took me a few more than 30 hours to beat the main quest, but I know there are secrets to explore and little NPC storylines I skipped over that are worth going back for. In fact, Eastward's overall story is good enough that I've judiciously avoided spoilers in this review, to the point of being overly vague in some spots, but trust me, that’s for your benefit. There's also a pretty detailed roguelite JRPG game-within-the-game, called Earth Born, to play – and it was fun enough that I spent about six additional hours on it.Eastward's real draw is its world. The vibrant pixel art landscapes are so creative and so packed with detail that I often found myself stopping to just look at a city street or a new railway station. Much of it is alive with little animations like running water, glinting metal, or spinning fans. I loved details like laundry on lines between buildings, boats overturned and made into houses, and countryside in the distance from train windows.It's a loving rendition of a world that's somewhere between a Studio Ghibli film and a classic JRPG – Castle in the Sky meets EarthBound. It's all overlaid with a pretty low-key soundtrack that's nothing standout, but it’s good enough, with a variety of both instrumental and chiptune arrangements.It's not just the backgrounds that pop, though. The characters of Eastward have great sprites and animation that packs in a ton of personality. They're a cast of well-designed weirdos who all have something unique going for them, which is an animated style that's become all too rare. The style and personality of the people you meet differs wildly, varying from gruff ranch hands to a trio of lively aunties, a sleepy small-town mayor, or a cigar-puffing casino owner. That's not to mention the circus performers, train conductors, conmen, and funky robots. (My favorite robot runs a construction company and has a bad hip.)Little fetch quests make you run back and forth across the world, but that's not so bad when that world is pretty. A lot of the best Eastward has to offer is just smiling at the guy meditating on a roof as you pass by his part of town. I’ve passed him a dozen times now; what is he doing up there? I don't know. He's happy. Dude's just vibing and it's nice.Earth Born is Sam's favorite game, and she loves the tie-in cartoon, too. It's a retro throwback to the Final Fantasy 1 or Dragon Quest era of 2D RPGs with a randomized roguelike twist, and it succeeds in invoking that era while still being a modern game. Earth Born consoles pop up in most of the major settlements alongside token-operated dispensers that spit out Pixballs – toys-to-life doodads that give you reusable boosts while playing – which you use to get further and unlock new party members inside Earth Born. It's the icing on top of Eastward's cake, even though it's entirely optional. So I guess it's more like the chocolate sauce on Eastward's ice cream sundae.As rounds of combat go by, characters accrue action points that they can use to fuel their most powerful skills. Knowing when, and against what enemies, to use your skills is the key to progressing. As you explore Earth Born's little branching world you pick up new party members, and a larger party lets you swap through more characters during each combat and start with more characters each run. They've all got something unique going on: there’s the Monkey, who helps even when not on the front row during fights, or the Merchant, who doesn't use the action-point system but instead uses accrued gold to do battle.I quite liked the tactics available in the turn-based combat, though if it were a real-world game it’d quite honestly be a "pay-to-win" experience because getting more Pixballs makes it easier and easier each time you start a new run at it. It's hard to be upset when the bonuses are something you earn in the course of finding secrets in the main game. Either way, it's a welcome change of pace from Eastward's more sedate stories or fast-paced combat. For some, I expect it might even be the highlight of Eastward.It's a relief that the world is so attractive and the characters are so appealing, because Eastward's greatest weakness is its writing. Character dialogue is hit or miss, with more than a few cliche lines and real stinkers. I'm talking about unironic use of lines like "I've been running my whole life." Frankly, it's because the writing doesn't know when to step back and let action or movement convey words. It uses two sentences when one would do – or, more often, one sentence when none would do. Dialogue that should pop up in the background – laughter, exclamations – is more often than not in a bubble that requires a button to progress. The only time I felt impatient or bored with Eastward was during the drawn-out dialogues.Exploration and combat are a welcome break from all that staring and reading. Fights are simple, and most enemies can be easily defeated with judicious application of John's frying pan. Everything else is susceptible to the neon-colored shotgun or flamethrower. There are lots of weird enemies though, like a giant frog person, tentacle plants, or ultra-tough zombies, and they've all got their own attack pattern – but I usually took them down the same way, no matter what they were. But let me be clear: Simple isn't always bad. It was fun to weave around attacks, smack mutants with a pan, and blow them away with the shotgun.It's weird that while you swap to Sam pretty often to do puzzles, I rarely felt the need to use her in combat; her ability to put monsters in frozen bubbles comes in handy for a few things, but you don't absolutely need it to win. If you had a psychic sidekick, wouldn’t you want her to do a bit more?Likewise, it’s a bit of a downer that the puzzles Sam’s instrumental in solving are never too complex, only ever getting difficult when it's a challenge of timing or skill – or to get at a few tricky hidden chests. Most often, you'll have to notice something like a wall to blow down with a bomb, a puzzle of which cables to connect, or which obstacles to remove so a raft floats where you want it to. The harder puzzles will have a timing element – moving quickly after triggering a switch, or golf-swinging a bomb into a narrow opening from a moving platform. It’s not complex stuff.The simplicity did bug me sometimes. While parts of the fighting are good in their straightforwardness, others are just basic. Partially it’s because the single-stick controls feel inadequate for aiming weapons. It's fun to bash with a frying pan, not so fun to make sure the characters are both dodging incoming projectiles.The relatively infrequent boss and miniboss fights are an exception there, requiring a bit of finesse and switching between both John's weapons and Sam’s powers. I liked them a lot more than the platforming and puzzle bits, and a lot of them really tested my ability to use every tool in my arsenal for a clean victory. One in particular stands out, an enemy knocks away bombs that you try to place at a vulnerable point. To win, I needed a deft hand at dropping bombs as John, then to switch to Sam to use her powers to distract the enemy, then back to John to dish out damage after the bomb went off. That’s the kind of synergy Eastward’s combat needs more of.
Skatebird Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/skatebird-review|One-part tiny Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater and one-part Micro Machines, Skatebird is a little bit like a Photoshop Friday pun parody brought to life; it’s extremely small birds riding Tech Decks on small-scale stunt ramps scattered around a messy bedroom, plus various locations around an office. Beneath the joke is an ambitious attempt at a 3D arcade skateboarding game, and it’s heavily inspired by the early Neversoft Tony Hawk games. The result is cute, earnest, and undeniably eye-catching, but it’s also pretty unrefined, light on content, and regularly irritating to play.The general vibe is as though someone brought up the legendary aforementioned Birdman and someone else sprang up from their empty pint glass and exclaimed, “Birds, man!” – only instead of cobbling together a crude JPEG of a pigeon doing a 900 they spent several years building a bona fide video game based on a loose gag. Developer Glass Bottom Games has obviously injected a boatload of bird-themed touches throughout, but the studio sticks largely to the Tony template: big air, wild tricks, and an assortment of maps sprinkled with tasks to complete and letters and tapes to collect.The key influence appears to be Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 4, where Neversoft dropped the iconic two-minute timer in favour of allowing players to cruise the maps searching for individual mini-missions. Like THPS4, Skatebird doesn’t supply an overt list of challenges before each level and time every run; you need to skate around the environment and find NPCs – or NPBs in this case, I guess – scattered around the map to discover the challenges you need to complete. While challenges themselves are timed, the lack of a countdown clock on general exploring suits Skatebird’s relaxed nature – an atmosphere that’s served very well by its catchy set list of original, bird-themed tunes.The soundtrack itself is easily the most polished part of Skatebird, and it’s stacked with relaxing, skate-friendly earworms full of bird calls and samples of overzealous nature filmmakers from public domain documentaries. It’s very well done; even the birds enjoy it, bopping along as they skate.Unlike THPS4, however, Skatebird doesn’t highlight fellow birds with missions to assign you in any particular way, so skating around searching for the next mission can sometimes be a punishment. They’re not hidden, but you do just have to coast about until you happen upon them. Also, sometimes the birds disappear after you’ve completed their mission, and sometimes they don’t – but there’s no distinction between the birds who remain on the map after you’ve done their mission and have nothing further for you to do, and the ones that do have a new task for you. This meant I often found myself skating up to (and directly through) birds with no objectives for me while combing the map for the one that did.The tasks are generally very easy, and the time limits Skatebird provides to collect stuff and build scores are mostly very generous. Items and letters required for individual objectives are often placed quite close together in a single area of the map, but even if they’re more spread out an onscreen marker will lead you directly to them. Unfortunately, this tends to make a lot of Skatebird’s challenges surprisingly boring, with collection closer to a formality than a challenge (except whenever some dodgy hit detection decides you didn’t grab an object despite literally banging it with your beak, or skating through it several times).There were a few challenges I did get hung up on for a few extra attempts, but the headache in these instances was mostly related to the jankiness of the camera and the controls. The camera often struggles to smoothly track the avian action onscreen, and there were plenty of occasions when I got temporarily trapped in 90-degree corners or other random parts of the level, sending the camera into a tailspin. It’s also a bit taxing to get out of a tight squeeze; having the birds flutter to turn on the spot may look authentic but in practice it just makes it cumbersome and sluggish.There’s a huge amount of imagination on show in Skatebird, from the greasy pizza box ramps, to the fake issues of Thrasher rip-off ‘Thrusher’ magazine bent into quarter pipes, to the plastic straws acting as coping, even if the overall art style is a bit basic and angular. It’s cute, too, and there’s certainly something to be said about a game that lets you be a galah wearing a piece of bok choy for a hat, or a cockatoo cosplaying as the first guy to always get arrested at a music festival.That, or every Test cricket player from the 1990s.Glass Bottom Games has leaned hard into the feathered framing of Skatebird, and I certainly can’t accuse it of lacking originality, even if I’m way too old for heckin’ satirical zoomer misspellings of words like “birb” and “screm.” Once the novelty of birds on toy skateboards wears off, however, the skating itself is revealed to be quite rough. It’s easy enough to bash out a few flips and grabs, but the tricks seem quite limited and they’re neither very exciting to watch or easy to distinguish from one another. Grabs in particular are boring, and the way birds instantly snap into stalls makes these feel noticeably unfinished.What’s more, there are also only five levels available, including a small, barren, and boring rooftop level that’s disappointingly plain and really a poor showcase of Skatebird’s shtick. With no multiplayer and minimal maps there really isn’t a ton of game here.
Lost in Random Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/lost-in-random-review|Imagine stepping into an original D&D setting that’s been lovingly written and DM’d by Tim Burton or Shel Silverstein. Instead of elves and dwarves, you have a giant card shop that’s also a person, a decadent duke, and a scary-looking upside-down guy who only dreams of being able to rhyme – just to give a few examples. That’s the wildly creative premise of Lost in Random, a wholly original action-adventure game that thinks outside the box. Its combat wears thin, but exploring its worlds never does.You play as Even – one of two twin sisters, Even and Odd – who are fated to roll the Queen’s mystical six-sided dice at age 12. The resulting roll determines which of the six worlds in the kingdom of Random they’ll spend the rest of their lives in. Long story short: Odd is sent off to the Queen’s world but Even isn’t willing to let her go without a chase.The world-spanning adventure that ensues after you manage to escape the dreary starting zone of Onecroft, takes plenty of nods toward films like The Nightmare Before Christmas, Corpse Bride, Coraline, and other similarly gothic-inspired stop-motion films. Despite the entirety of Random being drenched in dark hues of black and green and gray, each world still offers completely unique and decadently layered settings.For example, Two-Town’s denizens feature two directly opposite personalities that can shift each time the Queen rolls her dice. This has resulted in the construction of a separate Two-Town, called the Upside-Downtown, which completely obscures the town’s skyline, kinda like that one scene out of Inception. It makes Two-Town feel that much more immense, and you can tease apart as much or as little of the zone’s background story as you’d like through side quests, or by speaking to the many interesting NPCs hanging around town before moving on.Meanwhile, Threedom and its people are trapped in a perpetual state of war over a series of petty squabbles between the three outlandish Triplets. The other, equally otherworldly characters of the world react to them in weird and unexpected ways that keep you guessing.For instance, you’re constantly told about Lost in Random’s appropriately named and visually terrifying Shadowman. You hear snippets about this terrifying monster that stalks the shadows and snatches lost children who wander too far from home, but when you finally meet him he’s frustrated that the war is too distracting and no one’s paying attention to him. This is just one of many ways that Random feels lived-in and richly detailed.And these otherwise creepy characters are made lovable through the genius of Lost in Random’s writing. Incredibly memorable characters like Mannie Dex, Seemore, Herman, Ooma, The Nanny, and so many others make moving to the next world kind of like watching the next movie in a 20-hour series of timeless holiday classics.Then there’s the semi-real-time combat, which as you probably guessed from the name, leans heavily on dice rolls and cards. It’s sort of like Final Fantasy 7 Remake’s combat system, but it’s a bit simpler once you get used to these very random rules. You start each battle with your trusty slingshot, which allows you to shoot crystals off of the faces and bodies of your foes. Once you’ve collected enough of them, a new card is added to your hand – up to a total of five cards.The part that makes this interesting is the fact that each card in your hand is randomly pulled from your much larger deck – which lets you store up to 15 cards at a time, including duplicates if you want a few cards to show up more regularly than others – and you have no way of predicting which cards will appear when you roll your dice. Don’t worry if this sounds too weird, because most of the cards you can equip in your deck include the usual mix of swords, healing potions, and bombs. The real-time part of combat kicks in when you spawn a weapon and button-mash your foes to death or until your weapon breaks.All of this “cards” business would shuffle Lost in Random’s real-time combat around and make it more appealing than the average button-masher if the enemy’s AI wasn’t so easy to outsmart with such minimal effort.There are two issues here. The first issue is that you’re never prompted to select a difficulty level unless you go digging into the menus after already having spent some time playing. The other issue is that, on the default difficulty mode, each foe is packed with a lot of hit points, and a single battle might still take about 20 minutes or longer – simply because of how many of them will spawn before you’re finished. Regardless, each of these enemy types are pretty slow and predictable, and it’s easy to use any damage-dealing card to beat them down without thinking too hard.It feels great for the first few battles, especially when you’re playing with interesting card combinations like Blacksmith’s Blink and Crystal Curse – the former giving you the ability to deal damage when you dodge roll your way through enemies, which causes crystals to break off of them, and the latter giving you the ability to deal damage each time you break those very same crystals – but the novelty does eventually wear off. Combat encounters end up appearing a bit too often, slowing down the pacing of the otherwise excellent story and dialogue sequences that make Lost in Random truly shine.
TOEM Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/toem-review|It's one thing to call a game "small," maybe referring to its length or something about its quaint aesthetics. But TOEM, a game about the joy of photography, is small in the way a snow-topped winter cabin is small, or a sleeping cat is small, or a plate of cube-shaped cheeses and nicely sliced meats is small. It's small in totality; pristine, complete, and precise. It's perfect for snuggling under a blanket on a quiet evening with a scented candle and a mug of cocoa to finish in one contented sitting.TOEM starts with smallness in premise: a young protagonist, equipped only with a camera given to them by their mother and a pair of clogs, is now old enough to journey through their little top-down, black-and-white world to see the sights, take photos, and finally witness TOEM's titular phenomenon: a spectacle described in the opening minutes with awe-struck vaguery. After departing from their quiet hometown, they visit adorably diverse areas including a dense forest with a woodland hotel, a seaside town featuring both sunny beaches and stormswept coastline, a bustling city full of rushed business folk, and a snowy mountain peak, helping members of the community with their camera along the way.The initial camera functions are simple ones: you can zoom in and out, or flip it to take a selfie. Later, it gets a little bit deeper when you get a tripod that lets you set up specific shots, and a horn you can honk to elicit goofy reactions from your subjects. Rain, snow, and mud can spatter your camera lens, though certain items or interactions will clear this problem up if you don't like it. Beyond these, don't expect more elaborate photo editing tools from TOEM — but of course, just five minutes with it is enough to know that fancy camera functions would be utterly beside the point.TOEM doesn't gamify its photography further than "take a photo of this" to solve a puzzle or progress forward. There's no photo scoring and no Pokemon Snap-like rarity system. In a different kind of photo game, this simplicity might have been a disappointment, but for the most part I didn't miss it in TOEM. The cute, humorous scenarios TOEM rewarded my curiosity with were almost always satisfying enough without having to try and set up some perfect shot, and even without a quest or a reward to motivate me, I often found myself framing goofy selfies with characters and places I liked just because I wanted to.Good photos tell stories, and good photo-taking games tell many stories; therefore, TOEM is a very good photo-taking game. Though its bookend areas are short by storytelling necessity, the rest are densely packed, intricate, and diorama-like in their design, giving the feel of playing around with an exceedingly well-made set of paper dolls or a 3D comic book. Each map is stuffed with pleasant moments featuring characters like a grouchy newspaper boss who's rightfully proud of his mustache, a balloon family celebrating a birthday, or a DJ moose performing one heck of a set to an audience of glow stick-waving fans. The busy-ness of one or two areas (specifically ones with intense weather) did start to noticeably cause the game to chug on the Switch, but this was limited to those locations and was only a brief, minor annoyance.There are longer stories, too, like the investigator you run into in each town who's after a shady character hiding in the scenery, or a series of ghosts tired of having to do everything for themselves. Most of TOEM's encounters happily marry the ordinary with either myth or absurdity, elevating day-to-day moments by asking you to look a little closer through a camera lens and appreciate the ways in which an army of ants might be just as delightful as a towering snow monster.Many of these little photographed stories are useful for moving forward, as community service is rewarded with free bus rides to the next area. You'll have to help out a handful of folk in each area through photo taking, fetch quests, or exploration in order to reach your eventual goal. For instance, you might need to use your zoom lens to identify all the items gumming up the machinery in a power plant to get a bridge to lower, find a lost dog, or take photographs of a snowman's scattered body parts for an upset snowman builder. You're free to take on whichever tasks you want to reach the quota for moving on, so if you get stuck on one it's simple enough to just swap your focus to something else. But TOEM's humorous, grounded writing was so enjoyable and its characters so silly and pleasant that I was eager to try and finish every possible task presented to me just to see all its world had to offer.And it was easy to go beyond even that, as TOEM also comes with a short list of achievements, collectible clothing items, a critter compendium you can fill with photos of cats, dogs, bugs, and other animals, and plenty of surprising photo interactions to stumble across as you go. You can also collect a number of catchy, soothing music tracks from composers Launchable Socks and Jamal Green, which will dip in and out as you wander through the world and offer both musical accompaniment and also, critically, occasional silence to appreciate TOEM's superb sound design.All together, I only spent about three hours finishing TOEM’s story and an extra hour after that finding every last secret. I could have happily stayed longer, but TOEM was such a precise, neatly wrapped little box of a game that I feel greedy asking for more. It's complete in a way I feel games often struggle to be, like a rare TV show that ends exactly how the writers intended after just a season or two, or a tasty meal that's filling rather than stuffing. I think there's something brave and wonderful about wanting to make something that is deliberately small in an industry where padded length and grand scope and scale are often equated with value by many people. I love walking away from a game feeling this content.
Big Rumble Boxing: Creed Champions Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/big-rumble-boxing-creed-champions-review|Much like the iconic Rocky Balboa himself, the glory days of the arcade boxing genre are well behind it. Hell, when Midway’s respectable Ready 2 Rumble Boxing first laced up its gloves the President of Russia was Boris Yeltsin, Justin Timberlake was merely the tallest guy in NSYNC, and putting on a Marvel movie just meant watching Wesley Snipes kill a bunch of vampires.Modern iterations just don’t have the same magic, and while Big Rumble Boxing: Creed Champions is an earnest enough, budget-priced trip back to 1999, developer Survios’ attempt to breathe a little life into unpretentious arcade pugilism that’s two decades past its prime is honestly pretty disappointing.This is actually developer Survios’ second licensed boxing game based on the Rocky and Creed film saga; its first was 2018’s well-regarded VR game Creed: Rise to Glory. Unlike Creed: Rise to Glory, however, Creed Champions is an entirely non-VR experience and the two games have little in common beyond the same modest array of uninspiring and clichéd fantasy boxers that Survios has recycled from Creed: Rise to Glory.Creed Champions’ take on the sweet science is simple enough to understand, with a straightforward two-button approach to strikes, a single button for special punches, and a button to block, which doubles as the button to slip punches and land counters if you time it right. Boxers fit into a handful of different styles, and there’s definitely a noticeable difference between the swarmers and the sluggers.Button mashing will certainly suffice on the lowest difficulty setting in most instances (and, if it doesn’t, loading up on powerful hooks or uppercuts from afar tends to get the job done). That changes on the higher settings, however, where opponents are cannier and quicker to pulverise you with combinations and slip counters. Here you must play more strategically by dodging, answering your opponent’s attempted counterpunches with instant counterpunches of your own, and making doubly sure they’re committed to throwing a punch at you before activating your special attack (which will prevent them from being able to block it).There’s nothing necessarily terrible about Creed Champions’ casual, pick-up-and-play approach, although it’s pretty weird how your boxers can’t make small movements without looking like they’re in slow motion. I also find it incredibly annoying that the AI is able to somehow interrupt my special punches with their own special punches, even though I could never do the same. The brief wind-up vignette would play for my character, only to immediately segue into the wind-up vignette for my opponent, and then my character would be the one getting his face caved in. It’s also pretty irritating that the AI is almost always able to get up milliseconds before the 10-count after three knockdowns, while getting up after a third knockdown for me was rare as it requires woodpecker-like reflexes that threatened to turn my thumb to dust.Creed Champions is not especially stunning to look at, and its arenas in particular seem quite plain and plagued by repetition. For instance, sure, the pictures on the wall at Delphi Gym seem authentic, but the same pictures are on every wall. That’s a simple thing but it gives you an idea of the level of attention to detail you’ll find throughout.The bigger problem, however, is really the startling lack of things to do. Arcade mode features individual arcade towers for each character, although as a Rocky fan the only ones I found mildly interesting were for the official movie characters like Rocky and Apollo, and I’ve absolutely no desire to ever play them again. Rocky’s story doesn’t even cover the films up until Rocky Balboa and his bout with Mason Dixon; it just stops at Rocky IV. Even Ubisoft’s Rocky Legends in 2004 included Rocky V’s brawl with Tommy Gunn.The story segments play out in text boxes accompanied by simple grunts and exclamations, alongside a stock pose from the boxers in one of a limited set of emotions. These are the times where Creed Champions more resembles a stereotypical mobile game, and it looks cheap and lacks personality. The closest thing it has to a cutscene looks like two pieces of clip art fighting in a Monty Python interstitial. The approach is also regularly clumsy, with dialogue flipping between being attributed to the main character of the story and a “narrator”, which is actually just the same person. The matches are broken up with training montages that are ultimately pointless, as boxers have no skills or stats to improve and the score you get seems meaningless.The presentation also clashes with established Rocky fiction. I’ll concede that switching Rocky and other characters from southpaw to orthodox (or vice versa) depending on what side of the screen they’re on is just a side-effect of Creed Champions’ arcade approach. However, little things like letting us play out the legendary third, secret fight between Rocky and Apollo in front of… dozens of people did make me cringe a little as a huge fan of the film series.Outside of Arcade mode, all Creed Champions has is a Versus mode where you can fight individual bouts against the AI or a friend, and a training mode. With no online functionality, however, all training mode can do is help you be better at Creed Champions than the people who either already live at your house, or are willing to visit. You can eat as much lightning as you want, but if you’re just gonna crap thunder all over you mates I doubt they’ll want to play Creed Champions with you for long.There’s a smattering of objectively incredible music lifted from the movies, but the little other music that’s been included pales in comparison to the likes of Bill Conti and Survivor and gets repetitive almost instantly.
Life is Strange: True Colors Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/life-is-strange-true-colors-review|Life is Strange: True Colors has kept me more emotionally invested than any Life is Strange story since I played the original back in 2015. While every game in this adventure series is good in its own way, this one (from developer Deck Nine as opposed to the series’ creators at Dontnod) addresses many consistent issues that have plagued the last three games. It proves to be the best in the series thanks to consistent writing for both main and side characters, a compelling mystery story with good pacing, useful supernatural abilities, and perhaps most importantly, dialogue choices that offer more depth and complexity with big and most small decisions that actually impact the story in meaningful ways throughout the course of five chapters.While you can certainly play each chapter in bits and pieces, they’re all available immediately so you can binge its 14 hours of story in one sitting with no waiting. Every episode has good pacing, a clear goal, and plenty of suspense. Before writing this review, I played through True Colors multiple times and found no definitive way to experience the story. There’s a notable difference from previous episodes in that there is no recap of the previous chapter when starting a new one or a teaser for the next after completing one, but in its defense, True Colors does not really need it.You play as Alex Chen, a young woman with a troubled childhood who comes to the fictional mining town of Haven Springs, Colorado to live with her brother Gabe. After a mysterious accident, Alex uses her supernatural empathic abilities to bring the town’s secrets to the surface. Personally, I wish that the trailers hadn’t spoiled the nature of the central mystery for me, so if you haven’t watched them yet, don’t – I urge you to go in blind.Haven Springs is stunning thanks to its scenic Colorado views. From the snowy mountains in the far background to the wooden bridge that separates the bus stop from the main street filled with colorful flowers and a river stream, this is arguably the best setting in any Life is Strange game to date and a compelling and effective tourism ad for Colorado.This is a small mountain town, and in typical small-town fashion, everyone knows their neighbors and their community is tight-knit. It comes across loud and clear that the residents genuinely care about each other. Some of this insight comes from Alex’s phone, which shares details of her relationships with her friends with some text messages (the content of which varies depending on your in-game choices). Alex can also check out MyBlock, a Nextdoor-like social media platform where the townsfolk share local updates, Easter eggs, and local banter; some of which are pay-offs as a result of the choices Alex made around those characters. There’s even a moment in which the entire town partakes in a LARP to cheer up a grieving kid. Seeing the townsfolk dress up in costumes in areas like the town’s bar was by far my favorite moment of the entire story. There’s even a light RPG element in that particular chapter that helps make the entire section a lot more fun to engage in.The people of Haven Springs also have a lot of life to them, which made me feel more emotionally invested in the community. Previous Life is Strange games have struggled with consistently giving NPCs compelling backstories and many of them were failed by poor writing. Alyssa Anderson in the original Life is Strange, Evan Harris in Before the Storm, Hank Stamper in the first episode of Life is Strange 2 all had a lack of depth that made them come off as stereotypes. But in True Colors, I can’t name anybody who felt underserved.A lot of that comes from the excellent way in which you interact with them, which is enhanced by a supernatural phenomenon. Like Max Caufield in the original Life is Strange, Alex has an unexplained superpower: she can perceive strong emotions through colorful auras that outline people around her. It may not be as spectacular as turning back time, but it does go beyond just “reading” people: if a person’s feelings are strong enough, Alex will also begin to actually feel those emotions herself. It’s almost like an out-of-body experience where she walks a mile in their shoes.In some cases, both scripted and unscripted, Alex can interact with items that contain memories (basically audio logs) that share a bit more about certain characters. I found this to be a nice add-on to Alex’s already robust empathic powers; not only can it help with dialogue choices big and small, it helps to add more perspective to Haven Springs’ residents. In one instance after exploring the flower shop, I found a t-shirt memory that explained how Riley Lethe met her on-and-off-again boyfriend Mac Louden at a bot-fighting competition she participated in. And if you decide to go off the beaten path, you will be rewarded with an additional backstory for certain characters that Alex will write in her journal. Her journal feels very much like her and offers insight into the character you’re playing as – sometimes she will write new lyrics or share extensive detail on when she engages in another’s strong emotions; you can even playback the optional memories you find.One of my favorite aspects of Deck Nine’s handling of Life is Strange’s story-driven format is that, unlike previous games in this series, there are so many choices – regardless of size – that impact Alex’s journey and future. One example of True Colors maintains throughout the story involves a side plot with Eleanor Lethe who early on in the game you find out she is having health issues, in particular, she is suffering from memory loss. But no one in town, not even Riley, who sees Eleanor is a material figure knows of her illness. At one point late in the story just as Riley is about to leave for college, you can tell her about Eleanor’s condition, but having previous conversations with both will leave you with the choice of whether to be honest and tell Riley the truth and risk violating Eleanor’s trust or keep the secret and allow Riley to go away to school. Those consequences and reactions feel real and consistent thanks to the detailed facial animations and appropriate body language of NPCs. Sure, some of those reactions are emphasized and spelled out when an aura appears, but even without the aura I always had a good understanding of how a character was feeling after Alex interacted with them.Because of the increased emphasis on the consequences of our actions, there were many times when I made a choice and had to second-guess whether that was what I wanted to do. No other Life is Strange game has made me reload a checkpoint save just to see a cutscene play out differently. There were times in previous games when I felt the writers would have dialogue options, you could have multiple options for a dialogue choice that is consistent with the overall protagonist, but another option felt “forced” or out of place. But Deck Nine’s superb writing offers multiple dialogue options that all feel like something Alex would say and remain consistent with her personality.By the time you get to Chapter 5, the effects of most of the choices you’ve made will play out in one way or another. It was a lovely surprise to see just how many decisions I made in earlier episodes metamorphosed into my own personal-feeling version of Chapter 5. Life is Strange has always been a series with high replayability, but this level of detail and variation in scenes makes True Colors even more rewarding for me to replay again and again.Like the previous installments, Life is Strange: True Colors has multiple endings that can result from the choices you make, none of which is a canonically “true ending.” While I initially thought I had a good idea of how the story would go, Deck Nine managed to keep me guessing – and by the time the plot twist came I was left in disbelief, eager to see how the final parts would play out. Yet each ending – and their variations – all felt natural to Alex, and she remained true to the character of someone who is happy and hopeful for the future that lay ahead.I also loved that even when Alex solves the main mystery, there are still plenty of secrets for her to discover around Haven Springs. The seeds of these side stories are planted through clever foreshadowing and hints for the curious among us, and their revelations always felt rewarding to me. There are even optional stories that happen in each episode where Alex can use her abilities to help people, such as helping a man guess how many jelly beans are in a jar so he can win the $100 gift card to take his mom out to a nice meal, boosting a runner’s self-esteem, or helping pair up a couple of friends with a mutual attraction to one another but were too scared to make a move. Even among the core cast of characters, in my first few playthroughs, there was always something new I could learn about them that allowed me the opportunity to form a better bond with them.Life Is Strange — Episode 5: Polarized is a fascinating exploration of a teenager deeply affected by loss, trauma, suffering, and failure. This is not the coming-of-age story Life Is Strange pretended to be early on, though. Polarized is destructive, unquestionably the bleak climax of the murder mystery that’s been dormant during most episodes, and it only somewhat works by the time Max Caulfield arrives to her ending. It’s disappointing to see Life Is Strange lean into its angrier story threads to complete its otherwise-touching human story, but its emotional closure and character resolutions make this a more memorable ending than its unnecessarily dark plot twists. - Mitch Dyer, October 21, 2015Read the Life is Strange Episode 5: Polarized ReviewDeck Nine also far outshines Dontnod in the romance department, with two strong options that Alex can pursue in Ryan and Steph. In previous Life is Strange games, especially Dontnod’s (Life is Strange 1 & 2), you had the option to romance either a male or female character and choose the protagonist’s sexuality, but I found those games to have lackluster options. Yes, that decision is a small piece of a much larger puzzle, but when I look back at them, Dontod’s poor writing always offered a strong bias towards one potential partner over the other.By comparison, Deck Nine offers an equal playing field to both Ryan and Steph, and when I played the first four chapters for the first time I was unsure who I wanted Alex to be with – or whether to choose one of them at all since you’re given the ability to opt-out of romance altogether. Both characters have their pros and cons and it’s quite clear Deck Nine is placing the ball in your court, and neither feels like they are getting the short end of the stick.
WarioWare: Get It Together! Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/warioware-get-it-together-review|If Mario Party is a full meal, WarioWare has always been more like a bag of popcorn: a quick, delicious snack, but try to eat it for dinner and you’ll be craving something meatier before long. WarioWare: Get It Together! is no exception, with rapid-fire microgames that are a delightfully wacky test of both reaction speed and problem solving – this time with the interesting new twist of using unique characters that control differently. But while Get It Together! looks great and can be a lot of fun, some dud characters and its fleeting multiplayer modes keep it from being a regular part of a balanced party game diet.All of Get It Together!’s madness is introduced through a brief but entertaining story mode, the entirety of which takes about two hours to complete. The story itself involves Wario, now a game developer himself, and the employees at his company getting sucked into the video game they are making to do battle with its bugs. That setup has nothing to do with playing the actual microgames, which give you a word or two of instructions and just a few seconds to follow them before throwing you to the next one, but the short cutscenes that kickoff each stage and the conversations between them can be very amusing.But we’re not here for the plot, and WarioWare’s single-player modes have always been more about going for high scores in a variety of ever-escalating themed playlists rather than beating them once and moving on. That’s a fun challenge, particularly with the later playlists that have a larger pool of microgames to throw at you. The story levels are also playable in co-op this time around, which is certainly a nice inclusion, if one that can feel like a “little brother mode” since the games seemingly haven’t been adjusted for two simultaneous players.Solo or co-op, however, Get It Together!’s assortment of microgames provide exactly the kind of madcap hilarity I want from this series. One second you’ll be removing a statue’s armpit hair and the next you’re scrambling to feed baby birds. The fan-favorite, Nintendo-themed games are also a joy, asking you to do things like deliver a present in Animal Crossing or complete a teatime in Fire Emblem. There’s a healthy mix of ridiculous moments and quick challenge here too, which allows you to tangibly improve as you begin to recognize levels.That familiarity is mitigated by the new unique characters. There are more than a dozen to use, each with abilities and movement styles that can give the same microgame a different flavor when you swap between them. For example, Wario himself can fly anywhere on screen freely and punch left or right with the press of a button, while his pal 18-Volt is stuck sitting still as he shoots discs from his head to affect the level from afar. They each have their strengths and weaknesses for certain microgames, and story levels ask you to pick a roster of three to five characters that you’ll randomly swap between, adding some additional spice to stages you’ve beaten a dozen times.Both the characters and the animations accompanying these playlists also deserve a shoutout for just how good they look. Get It Together! isn’t trying to push the bounds of modern graphics or anything, but the elaborate backgrounds between each microgame and the overall art direction are vibrant and full of personality. Tons of life has been poured into areas that could have otherwise safely blended into the wallpaper – including with the characters themselves, who use adorable 3D models that are made to look like chibi 2D sprites, making them wonderfully expressive despite their minimal designs.But while the roster is visually diverse, some of these characters are just objectively worse versions of others, mechanically speaking. Why would I ever want to use video game enthusiast 9-Volt, who is stuck constantly skateboarding left-to-right and can throw a yo-yo directly upward, when the robot Mike can also shoot upward but fly anywhere on the screen freely while doing so? Similarly, the dog-cat duo Dribble and Spitz can fly but only shoot right or left, respectively, whereas ninjas Kat and Ana have the exact same directional restriction… but can never stop jumping up and down, making them far worse.Meanwhile, the popular witch Ashley blows all the folk I just mentioned out of the water by being able to fly while shooting any direction she likes, and a unique option like the terrifying mother 5-Volt can be borderline unusable for some games since she only moves and attacks by teleporting. As a result, despite being given free choice of the roster, it felt like I was avoiding half of my options like the plague. There are definitely still enough good ones to keep the story levels interesting, but it’s a shame that “the same but worse” was used as a template so often.The other half of the WarioWare coin is its multiplayer, which is hit and miss in Get It Together!. There are a total of 10 modes in a section called the Variety Pack, which range from head-to-head microgames to co-operative score-attack minigames to other oddball entries like a fighting game. The three score-attack modes are largely dull (including a super boring side-scrolling platformer, which I never actually finished a full run of without quitting because it was just so mind numbing), but the PvP options can be a lot of fun… at least, for a little while.Apart from one of its two solid 1v1 modes and a janky volleyball minigame that’s only good for a couple rounds of entertainment (hot tip: 18-Volt is completely busted in this one), none of the four-player PvP modes actually let you pick your characters. Instead, they’re usually randomly picked and frequently changed, which feels like a truly baffling decision. That includes a clever territory-capture game with its own small set of unique PvP microgames (which are cool, but unfortunately get old fast since there are so few) and a Smash Bros.-style fighter that had promise but is let down by forced mid-match character swaps, causing it to devolve into the bad kind of party game chaos.Only two of the seven modes that allow for up to four players are even about completing the regular microgames (one of which is WarioWare’s returning balloon inflation mode) which leaves Get It Together!’s multiplayer in a very strange spot. Everything about completing these games and the zany, unexpected madness of adapting on the fly can be a good time with friends, but you are given so little control and things are so random that none of it holds its shine for more than a few rounds. I absolutely enjoyed myself while I was playing, but after trying everything the Variety Pack had to offer, there’s not enough of lasting interest here to ever make Get It Together! a staple of my party game rotation like past console WarioWare games were.To give credit where it’s due, Get It Together!’s story mode manages to make good use of its characters (at least the ones that don’t suck), and the genuine appeal of chasing high scores solo is further emphasized in the Wario Cup mode – a weekly unique score challenge with ranked leaderboards. It’s hard to tell how much long-term appeal this mode will hold having only seen two brief but entertaining challenges so far, but it is another neat inclusion to keep things fresh. That said, for having a ranked option, it’s a little strange to me that your score is partially influenced by how much you’ve engaged with Get It Together!’s cosmetic gacha system.Don’t freak out: there are no microtransactions here whatsoever, so that’s good. However, completing games will earn you coins that can be spent on loot boxes that contain “Prezzies” of various rarities that are then given to characters to level them up and unlock cosmetic recolors. It’s a relatively ignorable system for those who don’t care and a decent (if perplexingly convoluted) way for dedicated players to be lightly rewarded for their time – but your character’s level will also increase your ranked score in Wario Cup for some odd reason. That’s not the end of the world in a goofy single-player score-attack mode with no real-money way to buy Prezzies, but it is a confounding decision all the same.
Baldo Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/baldo-the-guardian-owls-review|It’s rare to see Studio Ghibli’s iconic and instantly recognizable anime art style take shape in a video game, but developer NAPS Team’s isometric action-adventure RPG, Baldo: The Guardian Owls, claims both Ghibli and The Legend of Zelda as its primary inspirations. Those are lofty ambitions, but Baldo rarely instills the same depth into its story or characters, and very little of it feels good to play. In fact, experiencing upwards of 50 hours of wildly inconsistent dungeon-crawling and puzzle-solving to reach its meager ending is more like wading knee-deep in a swamp than strolling through a park.The premise of a young boy attempting to save a world in danger is simple but effective for what’s intended as a light-hearted story. This is a pretty standard Legend of Zelda-esque plot, and there’s really no unique spin here. You’ll spend a lot of time solving dungeons, exploring an overworld, doing quests, and then backtracking every time you receive a nifty new piece of path-opening equipment like the Owl Bomb or the Sacred Fire.The main problem – at least when you’re getting started – is the lack of direction. Beyond the very first screen that shows you some basic tooltips for your controls, there is absolutely no tutorial. Many of the major mechanics, including the one that lets you shake yourself loose from spider webs, are not explained whatsoever. It doesn’t help that the rest of the interface is equally egregious, often making basic tasks like checking your inventory or your quest list much more arduous than it should be.In Baldo, bugs are hidden around every corner – and not just the kind you squash with your sword. Expect to commonly run into everything from NPCs not giving you correct items upon finishing their quests (essentially stranding you in a location until you revert your save and try again) to near-constant crashes to the dashboard and other glitches that make exploring simply far less pleasant than it should be. It’s almost like Baldo is passive-aggressively daring you to stop playing it altogether, pulling and poking you and trying your patience to see what it can get away with before you uninstall it for good.It’s immediately clear from the first few moments in the first dungeon, the claustrophobic Lost Galleon, that Baldo is in rough shape. Everything from this initial dungeon crawl to the labyrinthine overworld to the painfully nondescript world map is a chore to make sense of. Aside from some vague dialogue or hints from the Rodia Town library, or the help of the eerily chipper Minisio the Map Merchant, you’re rarely offered guidance at all.Later dungeons, like the endlessly frustrating Savoca Prison and the hyper-tedious Bobo Pit, are no better – they often find creative ways to waste your time and send you back to the “game over” screen rather than tug you onward. Aside from torch sconces and pressure plates, there’s very little consistent vocabulary across Baldo’s world to prompt you toward a point of interest, often making it easy to completely miss key items and events that are necessary to progress. It’s almost like every room is playing by its own completely unique set of rules.Many puzzles require you to carry fragile statuettes or push blocks across long distances while navigating traps. Compounding the tedium is the fact that you move as slowly as molasses while doing any of this. It’s all well and good when it all comes together at the end, but it’s excruciating to get there – if you get there at all.Frustrations abound as you navigate a dungeon. It’s far too easy to simply fall off of a ledge or dodge-roll in the wrong direction because there’s absolutely no feedback to help you guide Baldo around. Making matters worse, most of your important actions, like swinging your sword, talking to NPCs, and picking things up and throwing them are all mapped to the same two buttons on your controller, making it easy to accidentally talk to a companion when you really meant to attack an enemy.Baldo himself is also terribly fragile for most of the story – you start with only three hearts, and you don’t have too many opportunities to get more until you eventually trek up to the visually gorgeous but inconveniently remote Owl Village during the middle third of the campaign. During all of that time most enemies and traps deal a ridiculous two or three full hearts worth of damage, leaving little room for error. That’d be a tough challenge if the combat were up to it, but this is no Dark Souls: it’s practically impossible to gauge when to dodge or block an incoming attack. The man-eating plants and giant spiders who can sit in the air and snipe you from a distance are especially unfair and obnoxious.It’s not impossible to learn how to navigate around Baldo’s clunky controls, but don’t be surprised if you see literally hundreds of “game over” screens before you’ve even taken your first steps out of the humble Kidoge Village or reached the main hub city of Rodia Town. This is because it takes a long time to get good at surviving fights with even the simplest lizardmen you encounter in the early starting zones, who are unreasonably good at killing you and seem to have a limitless ability to evade your attacks.At least you can eventually build yourself up with powerful items like the Takame Shield, the Owl Mask, and the Owl Bomb, which further empower you to then explore this vast, exquisitely crafted world with ease. But even as your power grows, Baldo’s combat remains needlessly unfair, even when reasonably powered up. You are always at a disadvantage against some of the tougher foes like the Robowl or the Kangmi, both of which are relentlessly powerful and only rarely expose their weak points. But hey, at least you can use the map’s poorly-laid geometry to glitch these monsters into oblivion. Even then, you’ll still be wading through an ocean of game-breaking bugs, abysmal controls, unsatisfying boss encounters, and hundreds or thousands of soul-crushing “game over” screens before you even scratch the surface.Baldo’s simplistic and cute art style is more than appropriate for an isometric action-adventure game that’s clearly designed to fit in on Apple Arcade as well as consoles. But there’s something of a massive divide between its world art, which looks stunning in settings like the Marui Desert, Rodia Town at night, and the Owl Village to name a few locations, and the character and item designs. Those are far less sophisticated and often seem like children’s sketchbook drawings come to life rather than characters and monsters out of a Ghibli movie.But the biggest issue with its visuals is the fixed camera, which often obscures important information and details about the world as you move through it. It’s very possible to simply not see something that you absolutely need in order to get through the quest, and it’s infuriating when an enemy can see you and snipe you from off-screen before you’re even aware it was there.Speaking of being aware of your surroundings, Baldo may feature some of the worst game audio around. Each sound is ear-piercingly loud when the volume is set for the music to be at an appropriate level and is often played on repeat without end, like the annoying chain sound when you’re walking around in a dungeon. Making matters worse, some enemy types are entirely silent until you engage them directly, giving you no warning that they’re coming, while others make an indescribably annoying grunting sound. Baldo himself makes an obnoxious whining noise whenever he takes damage or blocks an attack, and it’s awful that there is absolutely no volume toggle to mute or turn down these sounds or make them blend better with the soundtrack.That’s infuriating because Baldo’s soundtrack is one of its best features. Nothing is particularly unique about it – you can hear motifs reminiscent of Final Fantasy 7’s Bombing Mission theme in the Pansa Hills, and I was reminded of One-Winged Angel in Odessa’s herb shop – but besides some bad mixing at points, it’s euphoric enough to inspire a lust for adventure. Which is to say that it does the job just fine.
WRC 10 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/wrc-10-review|2021 officially marks the 49th season of the World Rally Championship, making WRC 10’s 50th anniversary content… a fraction premature. Of course, after nearly two years of total turmoil it’s hard to blame anyone for wanting to celebrate their birthday early – the World Rally Championship included.To mark the moment, WRC 10 arrives armed with the most retro content to grace developer KT Racing’s series so far, with a new mode featuring cars and stages representing five decades of rally racing history. Combined with a deep career mode, the result is the spiciest and arguably the strongest official WRC game to date – though that’s a narrow victory, since it still hasn’t changed dramatically since the already very good WRC 8 and WRC 9, and it’s still making some of the same minor mistakes.That big 50th Anniversary mode is an important part of this year’s game, and it’s by far the biggest injection of historical content to the series since KT Racing started adding classic cars in WRC 8. With its own separate menu and period photography it does feel quite special at first, although there’s ultimately not really a great deal to it. They’re just a small collection of time trials with a little bit of text to explain the historical context of what you’re about to do.One significant issue that some may have with the Anniversary races is that the time requirements don’t scale with the global difficulty setting. Inexperienced racers can dial down the intensity of their career and quick race difficulty, but at the time of review, Anniversary mode cannot be changed. I thought I was cruising when I notched up the first two events on my first attempts, but that changed on the extremely tough third event (which is actually the fifth event, because confusingly the third and fourth event got skipped and remained unavailable). At least a couple of the time requirements I’ve subsequently encountered in this mode so far have been surprisingly stiff; certainly severe enough for less experienced racers to bounce right off this mode entirely. It seems strange for WRC 10 to cater for new and novice players with a variety of settings, driver aids, and tutorials, but opt for a hardcore, one-size-fits-all approach for the marquee Anniversary Mode.The good news for anyone stumped by the taxing time limits in Anniversary mode is that all of these cars – and the historical stages – can be used in identical fashion in quick play without any such pressure. WRC 10 allows us to put any car on any stage, historical or modern. The older historical stages are a fun addition because KT Racing has stripped out the contemporary advertising and safety features of the modern stages and replaced them with crowds of more period-authentic spectators, many of whom are poised dangerously close to the roadside. WRC 10’s old-school crowds aren’t anywhere near as thick as they were in the heyday of Group B bedlam but they definitely contain a few folks whose lifelong dream is to be killed by a rally car. Things obviously don’t get that grim, but the often-cramped crowds do make the historical stages a compelling challenge because just the tiniest touch to a stupid spectator will instantly respawn you on track with a stiff penalty.KT Racing has done very well selecting a range of rally cars that really matter, and a lot of world championship-winning cars are represented. The classics garage stretches from the Alpine A110, the winner of the first WRC in 1973, all the way to Ott Tänak’s 2019 Toyota Yaris, which famously ended 15 years of the championship being won by blokes called Sébastien. There’s plenty of iconic metal in between, too, like a pair of fire-breathing Audi Quattros, several Lancias (including the mighty Intergrale), the Peugeot 205, the Toyota Celica and ’99 Corolla, the 2007 Ford Focus RS, the Volkswagen Polo R, and a handful of successful Citroëns. Colin McRae’s 1997 Subaru Impreza and Tommi Mäkinen’s 1998 Mitsubishi Lancer Evo V are two other legends you may have access to, but as of launch they’re currently tied up as either console pre-order incentives or deluxe edition content. Broadly speaking, however, it’s a very good spectrum of both drivers’ and manufacturers’ championship-winning cars; there aren’t too many major winning models missing.Annoyingly, WRC 10 instantly makes one of WRC 9’s more irksome missteps, which is demanding that everybody begins the career mode in either the WRC Junior or WRC 3 series, with no way for those of us who’ve done a few laps already to skip past these feeder series and get straight into the main WRC championship. I get that climbing the motorsport ladder is a natural part of a career mode process, but it just feels a little punitive to make the faithful redo it every year. I suspect I would’ve had more patience for it had WRC 10 let me dive straight into the new Private team career option, which lets you build your own race team and buy and design your own team car with the welcome new livery editor, but KT Racing has locked the most interesting new element of WRC 10’s career mode behind the completion of Anniversary mode, which I don’t get.On top of that, the baffling bonus objectives have survived another iteration without being kicked to the curb, meaning you’ll still need to put up with your manufacturer suggesting daft things like “don’t use hard tyres for this rally”, which slightly undermines the interesting new tyre strategy layer KT Racing has inserted this time around. Not only must we choose a stockpile of tyre types to take into each rally, but tyres can even be cross-mounted if you want to experiment and potentially discover some extra speed on drastically mixed surface stages. Opting to complete the new shakedown before each rally will give you four additional tyres in your stash. Tyre strategy becomes very important if you opt for the new realistic rally length, which better resembles real WRC rallies (which, in real life, are generally run over hundreds of kilometres).You can name your co-driver this year, which is a fun touch, and KT Racing has added both an English-language female co-driver and a range of extra co-driver chatter for a bit more flavour out on stages. They probably could’ve done with a wider range of comments because they get repetitive quickly, and they’re not always correct, but I quite admire WRC 10’s ability to get a rise out of me. If you find it irritating, the so-called immersive voice can be toggled off. There’s definitely been work on car audio this year, too; all the components and layers are there from WRC 9 but it sounds denser and I’ve encountered none of the volume bugs I ran into in WRC 9.WRC 10 includes the new Estonian and Croatian rallies, but there are a few rallies missing from the roster. The last-minute Arctic Rally won’t be featured (the cancelled Rally Sweden remains in WRC 10 in its place) but KT Racing has explained that Belgium and modern Greek stages will follow after launch. I think Estonia is the highlight of the new rallies so far, with its fast, skinny stages and lush and gorgeous colour palette. Slower speeds expose some of WRC 10’s intermittent visual weaknesses, like squared-off curves and some occasionally plain trackside props, but it’s otherwise a very handsome racing game. Things look especially nice when low sun pierces the thick tree lines, and night stages look excellent.Gravel rallies like Estonia are still my preference; I prefer them over tarmac rallies as it’s the type of looser driving I enjoy. There have been some changes to the handling this year and I find the better sense of consistent momentum while sliding cars on the throttle quite satisfying. It also feels more challenging to make very small steering adjustments at high speed, meaning I really have to finesse the car on straights. It does quite a good job of letting you know when you have the wrong tyres on, and the change in grip across surfaces seems more noticeable than ever. I think wheel feedback this year is probably the best it’s been, but I’m still faster on a controller.KT Racing’s stage design remains fabulous, although it’s a shame so much of its excellent work from WRC 8 and WRC 9 has been dropped thanks to calendar changes. There is actually a bonus tab for other rallies, which I excitedly thought may have been KT Racing’s way of including rallies from the last couple of games that aren’t being run in 2021 – like Poland, Germany, Mexico, Turkey, or Australia – but the tab is inaccessible so instead I’m just confused.
King's Bounty 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/kings-bounty-2-review|King's Bounty 2 is a tired sigh of a Euro-style tactical RPG. Not the kind you make when you're frustrated or relieved, though; it's more like when you sit down after walking up a long flight of stairs and feel sort of distantly content. For the most part, it's fine. The tactical combat is actually pretty enjoyable, the music is great, and the world looks nice. But it feels janky and unpolished in a lot of technical aspects, and the mediocre storytelling rarely got me motivated to see how the next step of the adventure might unfold.In a lot of ways, this long-overdue sequel is comparable to RPGs like ELEX or The Technomancer: a mid-budget contender that really wants to be something like a blockbuster BioWare game but doesn't really have the resources or the expertise to get there. King’s Bounty 2 is a bit less ambitious than either of those other two, and probably the better for it – it doesn’t try to do anything wild and sticks to the fundamentals. But from the general glitchiness of the camera to the phoned-in story cutscenes, I still got the sense that the developers at 1C bit off more than they could chew.The voice acting, for one thing, is very inconsistent. The sorceress Katherine, one of the three playable characters and the one I spent the most time with over 40 hours of adventuring, has a pleasing timbre with a haughty, aristocratic delivery. But some of the random NPCs scattered throughout the world sound more like they’d just grabbed someone who hadn't been in front of a mic before and handed them a script, if the distractingly bad performances are anything to go by. And those moments detract from the worldbuilding.Characters are introduced very abruptly, just like everything else in the story, and you're sent ping-ponging from one clue to the next with little room for anybody to develop relationships with others, much less as individuals. There were a couple of surprises that felt worth the wait, but in general the motives of the various leaders and factions were always presented with so little nuance that nothing that happened left much of an emotional impact. It feels very by-the-numbers, like all of the heart went into building out the setting and very little into the cast and story.That's a bit of a shame, because the fantasy world 1C has put together is pretty slick for a project this size. The graphics are a bit dated-looking, especially with the lighting, creature animations, and some of the faces. Compared to even a six-year-old game like The Witcher 3, it comes up short. However, they've gone with an art direction that's just stylized enough it didn't bother me all that often. Zooming in on individual units reveals a lot of depth and detail, especially on some of the bigger monsters, and I particularly liked how increasing a squad's veterancy would spiff up their equipment visually as well. While large portions of the map can feel a bit samey – a lot of it is just hilly green woodland – it's also packed with little lore tidbits like discarded notes and history tomes that were entertaining to paw through.If only getting around weren't such a huge pain. Your default run speed is just slow enough to be thoroughly irritating from the first moment to the last, and for some reason there's a walk button but no sprint. Why anyone would want to move through this sprawling country even slower than you move by default sure beats me. You do get a horse fairly early on, but it has clunky controls, it's restricted to walking speed in larger towns, and it has a lengthy animation to get on and off that freezes you in place. That never ceased to be frustrating.What saves King's Bounty 2's bacon is the turn-based tactical battles. Granted, there are some unpleasant difficulty spikes, especially if you're playing a magic build in the early game. But they're actually pretty good fights once you get into the swing of things. You take an army of up to five units into each one, with dozens of choices from human knights, to gruesome undead, to deadly mythical beasts that result in practically endless interesting compositions. They're divided into four factions of Order, Anarchy, Power, and Finesse, and normally you'll want to stick to one to get the best synergies – but there are ways to build your character to be more faction-agnostic, at the cost of not being able to focus on beefing up one faction to their max potential.While King's Bounty has some issues, there's a lot to like about the game. It's a familiar, yet refreshing RPG hybrid. You're going to spend a lot of time with the combat system and that's a good thing because it's simple, intuitive and filled with strategy and depth. The fighting requires players to adapt to the situation, and will constantly keep gamers on their toes. Yes, the difficulty can be very unbalanced at times, and sure the tutorial needs work, but as it stands, King's Bounty is a great game for all types of RPG fans. - Jimmy Thang, September 30, 2008.Read the full King's Bounty: The Legend ReviewThe talent tree has an interesting twist to it as well, in that higher-level talents are tied to ethical decisions you'll make in both the main story and side quests. To unlock the most powerful magic spells, for instance, you'll have to choose Finesse over Power when given multiple ways to complete a mission. It turns out, though, that this is a better idea in theory than in practice. Finesse options tend to be the better choice in almost all cases unless you really want to put yourself in unnecessary danger for the sake of a challenge, and Anarchy vs Order typically ends up boiling down to moustache-twirling bad guy versus righteous hero. I would have liked to see a bit more complexity and nuance that could have led to more difficult decisions.Where this got a bit awkward is when I realized that there are only a finite number of battles, and a finite amount of treasure, throughout the entire world. That means you can't grind out weaker enemies for experience and better gear if you're stuck, so some sections felt like I was running around from side quest to side quest looking for a fight that I could actually win with my current power. It also means you can technically get a “game over” by losing all of your units and not having the money to replace them. King's Bounty 2 lets you save anywhere at any time, so this is more of a theoretical issue. But it's also kind of a poster child for the handful of awkward design decisions that just don't seem well thought-out.
Sonic Colors: Ultimate Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/sonic-colors-ultimate-review|Originally released back in 2010 for the Wii, Sonic Colors marked a return to form for the Blue Blur. It righted the ship of Sonic’s 3D missteps by focusing entirely on what makes the series fun: feeling like you are the fastest thing alive. Sonic Colors: Ultimate is that same game, remastered for modern platforms with improved lighting, 4K/60 FPS support (except on Switch, of course), a remixed soundtrack, and a couple of other minor gameplay additions. None of these upgrades make Sonic Colors: Ultimate a must-buy for returning fans, but for anyone who missed it due to being put off by the likes of Sonic 06 and Sonic the Hedgehog 4 Episode 1, it’s still good enough that this trip to Eggman’s Interstellar Amusement Park is already an easy recommendation.Regardless of whether you’ve played before, the story of Sonic Colors won’t be a surprise to anyone: Eggman is up to no good, seeking to harness the power of alien energy to fuel a mind-control weapon, and it's up to Sonic and Tails to stop him. The plot obviously isn’t what anyone’s here for, but it’s at least well acted and sprinkled with a few chuckles here and there – especially thanks to Cubot and Orbot, Eggman’s two robot henchmen, who have their own little running gag of Cubot’s voice chip constantly getting damaged and replaced, much to the chagrin of Eggman.What is important about the story, however, is that it introduces the Wisps, the small multicolored aliens that Eggman is hunting down. These Wisps are the main thing that separate Sonic Colors from every other mainline console Sonic game, both past and present. Think of them as transformation power-ups along the lines of what you’d find in a Mario game, only you get to choose when to activate their powers. Pink Wisps can turn you into a Spike Ball that allows you to cling to walls, yellow Wisps turn you into a drill that can dig underground, and teal Wisps turn you into a laser that can bounce off prisms and travel at the speed of light. They’re unlocked as you progress through Sonic Colors, but you can always revisit old levels and replay them with Wisps that you unlocked later on to access new paths, which is something that we’ll circle back to.There are a total of nine Wisps that you can unlock over the course of Sonic Colors: Ultimate – including a brand-new Ghost Wisp that wasn’t in the original game – and they primarily enhance the two things that are key to a great Sonic game: your speed (duh), and the multiple paths that allow you to find your own way through a level. A pink Wisp might give you the opportunity to completely bypass a slow platforming section by zipping up a wall, a Drill Wisp might lead you to a subterranean path that’s way faster than the one above ground, and a Laser Wisp can instantly shoot you across a section lined with enemies, taking them all out at the literal speed of light. These particular wisps do a great job of varying up the level design without ever slowing Sonic down.Then there are Wisps more geared toward secret collecting, light-puzzle solving, and platforming. While these are certainly less exciting than the ones built around speed, they still make exploration and revisiting levels with new powers a lot of fun, as they can help you discover new paths that dramatically change the flow of a level, and even help you improve your time or score.The new Ghost Wisp is probably the weakest of the bunch, as it’s really only used to mix up the locations of some hidden Red Rings compared to where they were in the original game. With it, you can float through walls by pulling yourself to an anchor point, and... that’s about it. Unlike the other Wisp powers, it’s never really used in any sort of clever or satisfying way.The one downside to the Wisps is that, because they’re drip fed to you one at a time over the course of the whole game, the first time through the early levels of Sonic Colors isn’t nearly as fun as they are when you’re able to replay them with all the Wisps unlocked. This causes the first few hours to be kind of a drag because you’re often forced along paths that are slow and tedious.That’s an issue that carries over from the original, but one that Sonic Colors: Ultimate introduces for the first time is related to its remixed soundtrack. The first three levels of any world play a newly remixed theme and the last three levels play the original versions. The bummer is that there’s no way to choose which version you want to hear, which sucks because I’ve found that most of the original themes are far superior to the overly produced remixes. The soundtrack is still great all around, don’t get me wrong, but it seems strange to have both versions and not give you the option of selecting which one you want to hear on a given level.The other big gameplay addition is a Rival Rush mode that lets you race against Metal Sonic in what is essentially just a dressed-up time trial. It’s a fun way to challenge yourself to beat a level quickly, but it feels like it should be something you can do on every level instead of there just being one per world, a total of just six races all together.Cosmetic items were also added in this remaster, giving you the ability to customize Sonic’s shoes, gloves, aura, and boost effect by spending a new currency that you can collect throughout each level. None of them are particularly noteworthy though – it’s just some straight recolors, simple visual effects, and tacky patterns. I found myself sticking with the classic look.On the graphical side of things, Sonic Colors: Ultimate holds up reasonably well for a nearly 11-year-old Wii game. The one sour spot is the cutscenes, which were not redone and are super low-res on a modern screen. But the actual gameplay runs at a steady 60fps in 4K on the PlayStation 5, and there are some nice improvements made to the lighting and character models.Most importantly, Sonic Colors: Ultimate benefits from having been a gorgeous game to begin with. Its levels are among the most imaginative the series has ever seen, from the Rainbow Road-esque Starlight Carnival that has Sonic speeding through space while an intergalactic war plays out in the background, to the dreamlike Sweet Mountain that’s made entirely of junk food. Every world is beaming with creativity and the unifying theme of it all being part of an amusement park is just icing on the cake.
Maneater: Truth Quest Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/maneater-truth-quest-review|The nonsensical delight of Maneater's shark-RPG premise made for an amusing if somewhat repetitive campaign last year, but the recycled ideas of its new Truth Quest DLC don’t do much to stop that novelty from wearing thin. This expansion mostly offers more of what you’ve already seen, sending you on familiar missions to eat hapless humans, destroy boats, or kill fellow sea dwellers. You’ll still get to hear hilarious narrator Trip Westhaven (once again voiced by Archer’s Chris Parnell) say outlandish stuff while you explore a new area of Port Clovis, and it’s still exciting to kill-or-be-killed by bounty hunters who bear down armies upon you in an effort to taste your delicious shark meat. These activities are just as fun as they were in the base campaign, but unfortunately they’re just as monotonous too.Having finished his documentary about a bull shark and Scaly Pete, Maneater’s narrator has naturally now gone full conspiracy theorist, sending you on a quest to uncover the truth that the Illuminati satanic lizard people are hiding... or whatever. What you’re actually after isn’t very well explained, but the story ultimately unfolds into a by the numbers hunt for a creature called the Atomic Leviathan. As over-the-top premises go, seeing Westhaven go from eccentric documentarian to babbling conspiratorial psychopath is entertaining and well written, even if a lot of the things you’re doing along the way feel extremely similar to when he was sane."It’s absolutely fun to play as mutant Jaws on steroids! Maneater chews the metaphorical scenery as often as it has you devouring humans and the diverse aquatic inhabitants of the Gulf of Mexico, and that’s some good dumb entertainment – for a while. But if you’re wondering whether its shallow combat and simplistic upgrades can sustain that excitement for the roughly 15 hours it takes to become a hulking megashark and reach the end of its uninspired satirical revenge story… it cannot." -Dan Stapleton, May 22, 2020Read the full Maneater ReviewHowever, that’s not to say that there is nothing new in Truth Quest. There’s a fantastic new evolution set that turns you into an irradiated demon of the sea with the ability to shoot lasers out of your mouth like Godzilla. This new ability is cool, but it’s also so overpowered that there’s little reason to use anything else, as you’re able to blast apart even the toughest enemies with relative ease. Watching helicopters get knocked out of the sky and people explode as you melt their faces with it never really gets old, but its mere existence also undermines a lot of the other combat choices you could be making.Alongside the new body mod there are five new organ evolution mods, an added organ slot, and an increased max level of 40 (raised from 30 in the base campaign). None of these are real game changers aside from the organ mod that lets you heal over time, but at the very least they give you some carrots on a stick to grind toward as you work your way through the new region and hunt a mysterious new predator.One thing that does manage to stand out is how much Truth Quest makes use of Maneater’s Whipshot attack, which lets you grab grenades, torpedoes, or other explosive projectiles thrown at you, and tail-thwack them back at your enemies. While the Whipshot wasn’t required a whole lot to get through the original campaign, it’s absolutely necessary in Truth Quest as some enemies can only be hit from a distance. You can use this to satisfyingly destroy structures or helicopters that would otherwise be out of your reach, or to do serious damage to high level enemies.The only issue is that you can’t use the Whipshot unless you’ve got AI enemies throwing explosives at you, and sometimes they don’t when you really need them to. Or they do, but they throw them so incompetently that you’ve gotta flail around desperately trying to grab one before they explode, probably taking more damage in the process than you would have if you’d have just gnawed on whatever it is you’re trying to blow up.Speaking of dimwitted AI, the humans and sea creatures that are usually pushovers up their game slightly in Truth Quest, now coming after you with helicopters, massive warships, and freaky new radiation powers that can seriously mess you up. Seeing the new weapons of war for the first time is a thrill, especially facing off against helicopters – leaping into the air to chew on one of those metal dragonflies is just delightful. Normally all these new enemies would present a pretty lethal challenge… but since you can shoot lasers out of your doggone mouth now, they’re never actually an issue. Oh, the joys of power creep.Outside of combat, there’s a new kind of side quest called Time Trials, where you literally and figuratively jump through hoops to complete a circuit in time. That helps break up the routine a bit, but Time Trials aren’t particularly exciting overall. Racing around the sea is already something you spend quite a lot of time doing in Maneater, so getting timed while you do it isn’t exactly adding much new to the experience. But at least now Chris Parnell will make fun of you as you struggle to jump through rings of fire. That’s always nice.There’s also a new “collectible” in the form of tinfoil hat conspiracy theorists who hide in hard-to-reach places and spout nonsense before you eat them, which can make for some good, murderous fun. But aside from those thin additions, all the new missions in Truth Quest are nearly identical to stuff we’ve seen before, like eating a certain number of humans or hunting an apex predator that presents a limited challenge. It’s actually surprising how many ideas are re-used, which sometimes feels like it could have been a part of the original game with how little it distinguishes itself.Truth Quest’s short-lived campaign only lasts a handful of hours, even for a completionist run, but the finale, which has you facing off against the Atomic Leviathan itself, is an absolute highlight. This irradiated monstrosity is unlike any boss encounter in Maneater before it, and feels like a proper kaiju-like monster fight. It doesn’t quite justify a lot of the repetitive questing it takes to track him down, but it at least serves as an enjoyable finale to an otherwise unremarkable expansion.
No More Heroes 3 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/no-more-heroes-3-review|While more and more developers try to create seamless, immersive worlds nowadays, No More Heroes 3 feels like a game straight out of 2003, where power-ups are food and big shiny arrows guide you to your next destination. At the same time, however, it’s littered with kitschy modern references to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Netflix, and performance-obsessed gamers, resulting in a 3D action game that’s trapped in both the past and present. This sequel still has some surprising boss fights and admirable ambition, but those are only enough to drag the rest of its aging ideas and mechanics along with it.No More Heroes 3 is the first mainline addition to the series since 2010’s No More Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle, but it’s actually more directly a sequel to the 2019 spinoff Travis Strikes Again. Unfortunately, unlike the novel and entertaining action of the original games, Travis Strikes Again was not particularly enjoyable, making its returning characters and plot points a less exciting reunion than they could be. But the core premise of the first two No More Heroes games at least returns here, letting you run around the fictional city of Santa Destroy as part-time assassin Travis Touchdown, who is once again killing his way up an assassin hierarchy as part of a bloody competition.In the original games, Travis joined this twisted contest for a chance to sleep with a beautiful woman named Sylvia Christel. But in No More Heroes 3, his motivations are less self-centered. This time an alien prince named Fu (who is basically the answer to the question “What if E.T. was evil?”) comes to Santa Destroy with his posse of nine alien overlords to try and take over Earth. Fu and his alien cronies conveniently join the assassin’s ranking, giving Travis a path to murder his way toward Fu and save the world.And that’s pretty much the way No More Heroes 3 goes for its roughly 14-hour runtime: start at the lowest rank, kill the boss, earn money from minigames to eventually buy a ticket to the next boss fight, and repeat until you reach the end. That’ll be a familiar formula for existing fans, but No More Heroes 3 still feels like a step back for the series in this regard. The themed levels full of smaller minions that previously preceded each boss are absent here, and the time spent between bosses is mostly tedious. As a result, the minigames needed to earn money – which range from a pretty fun lawn mowing game to a much less fun mining minigame – make up a bigger proportion of the overall playtime.To pad out the time between bosses even further, No More Heroes 3 also makes it so you have to complete two or three filler fights against various alien bad guys as an additional requirement to begin the next boss battle. While enemy variety is significantly increased from previous games, these encounters are less interesting than the themed levels they replace, and balancing issues can make them flat out aggravating to take on. These enemies have unique abilities like shooting lasers, throwing up mines, or turning invisible – but because their difficulty seems to be determined by enemy count more than anything, the fights are chaotic and messy as attacks fly every which way with no rhyme or reason.That’s a shame, because there can be a real flow to No More Heroes 3’s combat when it hits its stride elsewhere. You alternate between light and heavy slashes with your beam katana and whack baddies enough to stun them, at which point you can German Suplex them for additional damage. No More Heroes 3 adds a jump button too (though I rarely used it) as well as four unique abilities on cooldowns. These abilities either slow down time, push enemies away, set up a passive laser beam, or let Travis drop kick the nearest bad guys.The hacking and slashing can be fun, but I’m more torn on the cooldown abilities. On the one hand, their crowd control capabilities feel designed explicitly for the purpose of handling the aforementioned minion battles, and they could be especially crucial for harder fights. But on the other hand, these attacks don’t feel necessary for the actual boss fights, and don’t mesh particularly well with the rest of the sword-based combat – especially since the beam katana itself still runs on a depleting battery which you need to recharge during a fight by, uh, shaking it.Getting to each boss can be a slog, but the boss battles themselves remain a series highlight. You’re introduced to Fu and his gang at the start of the story, but these aliens lack the personality needed to stand out in any memorable way – especially compared to past No More Heroes bosses like amputee grenadier Holly Summers, scythe-wielding gothic lolita Margaret Moonlight, or the flame-throwing take on Texas Chainsaw Massacre Matt Helms. But, without spoilers, No More Heroes 3 cleverly zigs whenever I thought it would zag, messing with my own expectations of each boss and providing a few nice surprises for longtime fans. These fights are where combat truly shines, although some bosses are primarily beaten through puzzles instead. But even then, the creativity behind their designs makes them enjoyable for the humor alone, like one fight that’s settled through a deadly game of musical chairs.Between those flashy encounters, the open world of Santa Destroy is disappointingly barebones, and performance can be noticeably subpar in certain areas. One spot that looks like a bombed-out city (either a reference to Fortnite or Call of Duty) runs so poorly that it actually has an artificial retro CRT TV filter put over it, seemingly to hide its alarmingly bad texture pop-ins. That doesn’t make the issue any less severe, but No More Heroes 3 at least tries to make up for its clear technical shortcomings by presenting itself in new and interesting ways like this. For example, every chapter begins and ends with a hand-drawn anime-style opening or a Takashi Miike podcast hosted by Travis and his cinephile friend, Bishop. It will also randomly throw you into different genres at a moment’s notice, suddenly having you play a No More Heroes version of Fatal Frame or a retro PC-8800-style visual novel. No More Heroes 3 is always ready with a bit of creative flourish after every technical misstep.These frequent moments of genuine surprise and wonder meant I certainly enjoyed No More Heroes 3 at times, even if by today’s standards it’s a pretty dated and uneven experience between them. Developer Grasshopper Manufacture describes itself as a video game punk band, and No More Heroes 3 definitely feels like a house show where the guitarist is playing on a busted amp, duct-taped to hell but still not sounding quite right.I can’t help but admire No More Heroes 3 for that. This industry is often unforgiving of games that don’t run at a perfect 60 fps or have the latest high-end graphics, leaving weird, off-kilter projects like this without an audience. But that admiration doesn’t mean I can recommend it in good conscience to anyone who isn’t already invested in director Suda 51’s madcap universe. And even for that audience, it can’t hold a candle to either of its decade-old predecessors.
Hoa Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/hoa-review|Opening with its red-cloaked heroine calmly floating to shore on a palm leaf canoe and the tinkling of a delicate piano melody, Hoa sustains a chilled-out vibe for almost the entirety of its two-hour duration. This simple puzzle-platformer pairs the stunning, hand-painted looks of a Studio Ghibli film with a modest set of game mechanics to create a gentle journey through nature that never wears out its welcome.Inspired by Vietnamese mythology, Hoa’s minimalist story revolves around the titular fairy who’s sent away from her tribe as an infant after an unexplained but clearly tragic event. The adventure begins with the pint-sized Hoa’s return to her homeland, where she must use her magical powers to revitalise the terrain and its inhabitants. This nurturing of flora and fauna has satisfyingly practical effects on the gameplay; sunflowers bloom as Hoa moves near to create platforms out of petals, while rhino beetles can be beckoned closer to push heavy obstacles on her behalf.It’s all very intuitive, to the point that Hoa thankfully has no need for an on-screen interface of any sort to obscure your view of its gorgeous world. Its puzzle design is similarly uncluttered and perhaps even a touch oversimplified, with only a couple of late-game (used loosely in a two-hour game) mechanisms perplexing enough to give me pause. As far as brainteasers go, Hoa lags a long way behind the likes of Limbo and Little Nightmares II, but that at least allowed me to relax and enjoy the serenity that comes from catching rides from flying ladybugs through a forest canopy and exploring inky underwater depths by the glowing light of a school of jellyfish.While there are enemies of sorts to be found in Hoa, there are no death states or damage to be suffered of any kind. Mechanical spiders can lash out at Hoa, but the worst they can do is knock her back on her heels a few paces. There are also giant creatures to encounter along the way like a moss-covered rock monster and a towering octopus. These may have been threatening bosses in a lot of other games, but here they’re friends rather than foes; the chilled-out chieftains of each habitat that task you with hunting down butterflies in exchange for clearing a path forward.There is one action-heavy chase sequence late in the adventure, with Hoa dodging fiery blasts and making last-minute leaps along a path of heaving machinery, but it’s a cutscene designed to inject some drama into Hoa’s story rather than a tricky playable platforming section to intentionally induce stress. For the most part Hoa is like a warm bubble bath for your brain, with almost every element of its experience engineered to soothe. Hoa leaves a small shower of glowing pixie dust with each double-jump twirl, for example, while flowery vines softly knock together like wooden wind chimes when she swings on them. Hoa will warm your heart but it won’t make it beat any faster - in fact the only arrhythmic effect its beauty creates is on the occasionally stuttering framerate.There are some standout moments in Hoa, like stumbling upon a wrestling arena full of rhino beetles or scaling a maze made out of the glistening threads of a spider’s web, but it’s the story’s climax that I found to be the most memorable. It’s here that the colour palette shifts to a stark black and white and you get to play through a series of remixed elements from the previous stages, with interesting wrinkles like mirrored landscapes and rotating environments that make the puzzle-platforming substantially more involved. The sudden surge of inventiveness in this final fifteen minute stretch made me wish that Hoa could have gone on a little longer.If not longer, then I at least wish there were some secrets to find. Hoa earns a few movement upgrades as you progress, but despite the fact that a hovering ability allows you to reach some previously inaccessible areas off the main path, there’s nothing to find when you get there. Hoa is a mostly linear adventure, which is a shame because it’s environments are so spellbinding that I would have relished some more incentives to explore them.
Road 96 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/road-96-review|Normally, the toughest decisions to be made on a cross-country road trip amount to which salty snacks to stock up on at the service station and who gets control of the radio, but navigating your way along Road 96 takes you down a series of highways with significantly higher stakes. This narrative-based adventure makes an unlikely marriage out of a Telltale Games-style approach to choice and consequences and the procedurally generated repeat runs of a roguelike, somehow making it work as a mostly cohesive and consistently captivating journey through to its final destination.It’s a trip that succeeds largely due to the appeal of a recurring cast of central characters that you meet as you head north in an attempt to cross the border and escape the fictional country of Petria. Set in the nineties but seemingly inspired by Trump’s America, Petria is a nation divided, and thus the people you meet sit on varying points on the political spectrum. They range from a hilariously vapid right-wing journalist to computer hacking anarchist and Travis Bickle-esque nihilist, the latter of which supplies Road 96’s most menacing moments as you try and talk your way out of a number of simmering situations at gunpoint.It’s not all life-or-death, but certainly some care has to be taken to keep certain characters onside and also propagate your own political beliefs, both of which shape Road 96’s eventual outcome. Alleviating any anxiety brought on by constant decision making are a healthy variety of fun side activities at each stop along the roadside, whether it’s bartending and petrol-pumping minigames to earn extra money, or assisting a policewoman with an investigation by interviewing motel guests and eliminating suspects based on their responses, like a game of Guess Who? Some of these diversions are pretty far-fetched – like when I had to beta test a homebrew video game on a laptop while driving a stolen car – but no less entertaining or memorable.Each journey to the Petrian border takes up to an hour and can culminate with you successfully fleeing the country, but it can also end in arrest or even death at any point along the way, depending on your actions. Regardless of how your run ends, you begin again as another anonymous member of the disenfranchised youth and take consecutive shots at freedom as the days and months tick down towards Road 96’s climax: the Petrian presidential election. These recursive runs reveal more about the main characters each time, thrusting you into new interactions with them in randomised sequence without ever repeating any given scenario. One moment you might be supervising a wall of security camera feeds to help a pair of hapless robbers, while a few more miles down the road you might find yourself standing in as a cameraman at a pressurised political rally. All the while, Road 96 continues to swerve from one surprising situation to the next.Subsequent scrambles towards the border are given added flexibility as you unlock power-ups that persist between runs, such as a lockpicking skill to steal cash out of office drawers or a cleverness boost that unlocks additional dialogue options. Over time, the connections between Road 96’s main characters are revealed, and although there were no shocking plot twists I still enjoyed unravelling the mystery surrounding a certain major tragedy in Petria’s past that defined the disparate ideologies of its inhabitants.There’s also some light strategy involved in determining exactly how you’ll proceed from one stop to the next. Catching a bus or calling a taxi gives you the opportunity to rest and recover lost health, but both cost money, which is in extremely limited supply. Whereas walking or hitchhiking are free, but the former saps you of health while you never know exactly who is going to pick you up during the latter – a lift from a truck driver might be fairly sedate, or it could spiral into violence as you’re forced to help him defend his cargo from bandits. Managing health and cash reserves is crucial in determining how you’ll cross the border to freedom should you make it all the way north, since you’re presented with multiple options that range from enduring an arduous hike over the mountains or simply bribing a border patrol guard to look the other way.Thumbing for rides wasn’t the only kind of hitch I experienced in Road 96, though. Outside of the main characters, there are only a small number of faces reused for other Petrian citizens you meet, which makes it seem a bit like you’re caught in a transcontinental Truman Show each time you travel from a budget motel to a burger joint and the proprietors and patrons all resemble the same small supporting cast. Meanwhile, anytime you’re actually out on the road there’s a weirdly unnatural way that trees and billboards sprout up into existence as you head toward the horizon that distracts somewhat from Road 96’s otherwise vibrant vistas.There’s also the occasional inconsistency between story runs. For example, at the end of one run I opted to stowaway inside the back of a delivery truck to get across the border, and only just survived because I had built up enough health to hold my breath for the full duration of a spot check from the border patrol guards. However, my immediate run afterwards opened with a GNN news bulletin about a teenager who’d been caught hiding in the back of a truck and arrested. There were certainly times where the seams between the complex patchwork of Road 96’s story segments were more visible than others, but thankfully these incongruous moments merely amounted to minor potholes rather than major plot holes.Potentially more damaging is the way that dialogue options hover beside the character you’re speaking with, and thus have a tendency to move around the screen whenever a person wanders. At one point late in the game I was asked to describe the appearance of a certain character, but the dialogue boxes jumped suddenly as I chose my reply and I ended up clicking on the wrong one, at which point a giant ‘The killer’s appearance remains unknown’ message popped up onscreen. I can only wonder how dramatically different things would have played out had I made the choice I’d actually intended at that moment, since I was never given the opportunity to identify them again.Ultimately I was satisfied with how my eight-hour journey through Road 96 resolved. Which is just as well, since according to the developers there are somewhere in the vicinity of a thousand different potential routes to take due to the procedural nature of Road 96, and there are no do-overs short of starting all over again. When you have a form of storytelling that hinges so precariously on choice, it’s a shame that the balance can be upset by such a simple quirk with the interface.
Boyfriend Dungeon Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/boyfriend-dungeon-review|When I first heard the delightfully wild concept of Boyfriend Dungeon, I was keenly interested in the idea of playing a game that gives the dating sim formula a different kind of action: Hades-style isometric battles in which your weapons are also your love interests. That’s an exciting concept because games in this genre are often defined by romances that are longer and more choice-based than what you'll find in something like Mass Effect. But while the combat is entertaining enough while the enemy variety lasts and Boyfriend Dungeon certainly has a cast of pleasantly designed characters, it fails to offer much nuance in its relationships. Even worse, its roguelite structure tied to romance systems meant juggling spending time with who you like versus the weapon you actually want to play with. Limited dungeons, having to interact with an antagonist in an uncomfortably close way, and an awkwardly rushed romance system kill the mood, too.In Boyfriend Dungeon, you assume the role of a person who's never been on a date before and is sent to a cute beachside town for the summer to find love. It turns out the dating hot spots are on the beach or in the town's nightlife, but excitingly, they're in "dunj" or (what the cool folks here call dungeons) where people can go dungeon crawling for money — and romance. You're not dungeon crawling alongside another fighter, but are instead wielding potential partners and using them to slice or bash enemies into submission. In Boyfriend Dungeon, some people can magically transform into a cool weapon that reflects their personality: a cautious and artistic woman named Valeria can transform into a pretty dagger, while a K-pop idol morphs into an awesome lasersaber. Wielding someone isn't inherently romantic, but these weapon-people aren't hesitant about getting flirtatious.It's a fun setup, though some moments in the romantic journey get a little bumpy given how inconsistent your character is with their available dialogue options. They go from not even being able to say they can stand up for themself in one instance to suddenly navigating rather intensely flirtatious situations. Talk about whiplash! More divergent dialogue options would have made more sense and let us consistently roleplay as either the naive romantic novice or the suave natural — or maybe even a character who had a shred of dating experience. As it is, these romances escalate far too quickly; if I were in their very inexperienced shoes, the way they go about approaching their partners' problems and romantic gestures would only make sense if they had far more disastrous outcomes.Things get even weirder in the beach town when weapon-people start going missing, so naturally, you delve into the dunj only to find them and, of course, date them. By typical dating sim standards, romance is exceptionally quick and easy in Boyfriend Dungeon. Since they’re almost all in your debt for your heroic rescue efforts you’re not starting from the point of having to win anyone’s favor — you’re choosing who to reject, if you decide to deny anyone — so already we’re cutting right to the chase and skipping the introductory phase we see in games like Hatoful Boyfriend and Hakuoki.Every weapon-person has six levels of romance, each with a corresponding date encounter, which increase as you gain experience with the weapons in the dunj by slaying enemies. The first is a surface-level and often heavily flirtatious introduction; the second is where you choose if you’re keeping it friendly or going for a more intimate relationship — and you'll usually get another chance at the third level to romance if you denied their first advance.There’s just not enough time to get to know your date before having to decide to engage romantically. There are quick interactions with the weapon-people while exploring the dungeons at special rest spots, but their reactions don't change as your relationship grows. A cold character that warms up to you can suddenly be aloof when you get back to the rest spot in the dunj. It's fine, and they do provide some nice context for the characters' thoughts on random subjects, but they're not substitutes for more meaningful time with each character while first establishing a romance. The rules of when you have to choose romance aren't clear either, so I went along with being flirtatious with everyone at first out of worry I'd miss something.For others like me who prefer one romance at a time, it may be a bit overwhelming and uncomfortable to accidentally find yourself juggling romantic involvements with five of the seven weapon people. I was especially unhappy knowing certain characters I was romancing probably wouldn't be cool with me making lifelong plans with others, but there were never any consequences for those unfaithful actions. (Which is also disappointing – shouldn’t I be called out for my two-timing ways by the characters who would be uncomfortable with that?)There are options to soften the intensity of the relationship and occasionally disagree or go against something the character would like, but not a ton of opportunities in terms of moving back to friendship. After I found out a character was into a relationship style I personally didn’t vibe with, I found it basically impossible to say “thanks but no thanks.” I could ignore her, but that’d also mean sacrificing the resolution to her story – and growing her abilities as a weapon.Which brings us to yet another problem: your affection level is the same as the weapon’s level in their skill tree. Weapon level progress stops at each level up and requires you to go on the next outing with the weapon-person before you can start earning XP toward the next. Progressing through skill trees is important because it unlocks bonuses and abilities specific to each weapon, like chain lightning that bounces between more targets for the electric blade, or amping up bleed duration that damages enemies over time. I wanted those upgrades, especially for my favorite weapons, but I just wasn’t into some of them as characters.The weapon-people vary in their preferred kind of relationship (poly, casual, monogamous), and the quality of their stories and personalities varies, too. With the exception of one of the more grounded characters’ stories, those whose stories push the boundaries of realism had the most interesting arcs. Sure, they're all weapon-people, but that magical part of them rarely plays into their personal stories. An extra dash of magic like witchcraft and other fantastical themes definitely enhanced their tales. Though their stories were, to an extent, relatable (I helped someone cope with death and another learn how to live a healthier lifestyle), I also got to see how a cat juggled its life indoors and on the streets. (Yes, you can "romance" this cat and it's maybe the best of Boyfriend Dungeon’s storylines – which is a bit of commentary on dating in and of itself when you think about it.) The limited number of interactions cut short my enjoyment of their paths, but they were enjoyable all the same.Some, however, were less than fun. One individual basically boiled down to being defined by their poorness and basically couldn't do much for themself. You'd think someone in college would understand that cooking for yourself is a way to save money, yet this character was oddly oblivious to that. And yet again, I didn't feel I knew them as a person well enough to enjoy being able to help them out of their occasional unfortunate situations. Another had serious family issues that were awkwardly made to be intensely goofy. For instance, the man's father would berate him for simple things like texting or, I don't know, the quality of his water. I liked his story otherwise, but it was an inconsistent experience. Again, you can skip engaging with characters you don't enjoy, but that also means you skip growing them as a weapon.The antagonist is Eric, a guy your cousin actually sets you up with for your first date. Eric is unabashedly rude and judgemental, so it’s not unreasonable that regardless of how you choose to approach him, you’ll only be able to treat him with disdain after a certain point. The problem with him as the villain is how you’re forced to interact with him, which is the same way you interact with everyone else: you have to text him. And that gets weird, because shortly after your initial meeting, this guy goes out of his way to pester, stalk, and intimidate you. Even weirder, he owns a materials shop you can choose to go to too.I was made massively uncomfortable by responding to his creepy messages, so as soon as I realized I could just ignore him I did, and went about my character’s summer. Only after completing the dungeons and finishing three character paths did I realize that you can’t, actually, bypass his creepiness; if you don't answer the texts of an asshole, you don't get to finish the story. Yikes.This realization was genuinely off-putting for me. There is a warning at the beginning of Boyfriend Dungeon about potentially uncomfortable situations, but it didn’t say I’d have to take part in them. I know many may not have the same response to having to interact with someone who is actively trying to harm you, your friends, and others because of their romantic interest in you, but even still, the design fails there. Physical notes, additional challenges in the dunj, or myriad other threats would have been better than forcing us to give space — and by replying to Eric's messages and choosing to engage, that is giving space — in order for him to continue his gross ways. If it were me I’d just block him and be done with it.I might’ve felt differently if the ending put some kind of twist on things that made it make sense or had something to say about abusive relationships beyond "it's bad," but no – the resolution with his story is frustrating and unsatisfying, too.It's a shame the dating structure and some large leaps in relationships are largely disappointing because there is actually a lot to like about Boyfriend Dungeon. The music everywhere is consistently great, with catchy original pop songs and fun weapon romance themes in the lyrics. It's a perfect mix for the unique kind of dungeon diving you'll do while still maintaining the fun beach town vibes. The character designs are nicely diverse, gender-inclusive, and of course, attractive (please just look at Seven and Valeria). Their weapon abilities are fun to learn, too.Each weapon has its own specialization: Rowan, the scythe, creates a black hole that draws enemies and eventually earns you a damage multiplier; Valeria, the dagger, is all about confusing enemies, letting you roll your way out of a sticky situation; Isaac, the estoc, grants a shield and parry ability. You can slightly tweak certain perks at select love levels, too. Again, they only go to level six, so their growth is limited. That said, I appreciate that the weapons offer different movement speeds too – the dagger, for instance, made me nimble while the scythe was slow and heavy.The combination of the weapon variety plus the random challenges of the procedurally generated dungeon floors made me happy to return to them early on and try my hand at fighting my way through odd monsters like flip phones and old boxy TVs. Dunj monsters are manifestations of a person’s fears and, as one weapon in particular won’t shut up about while fighting, the first is about fear of change. So having monsters be designed as old technology that gradually becomes more monstrous as you descend makes a fair amount of sense.As you’d expect for a roguelite-style action game, it's easy to lose a run quickly early on. The only ways to leave a dungeon are by running out of health or by leaving through an elevator. Naturally, progression after each defeat or exit was made easier with XP spoils that went to my weapons and my character. With each run, I satisfyingly saw my HP increase and did noticeably more damage.I enjoyed learning each weapon and appreciated that I could change which weapon I had equipped between each floor. If I had maxed out a weapon's level and needed to go on a date to move on, I could then switch to another and work on their level. That said, there are only about 12 or 13 floors depending on the dungeon, counting a mini-boss on the way down. They're fun to get through, but it's a bummer there isn't at least one more to play. The two dungeons get a little stale if you aim to complete everything Boyfriend Dungeon has to offer.By the time I had maxed out two weapons, I already completed the available dungeons. There is a double XP bonus for the remaining weapons after completing the first, but the lack of enemy variety meant all my interest had to come from how weapons played differently. And for the weapons I didn't like playing with – and if I didn't like their character’s story either – it was just getting through it for the sake of doing so. (Normally I'd skip character paths I don't enjoy, but for the sake of this review, I wanted to see all the storylines through. Finding everything and completing all paths took about 12 hours.)There are other ways to dish out damage: Zines give you the power to toss fireballs, summon a bug ally, or even place a cute little turret to help do damage. Zines have to be crafted, and their recipes are randomly given out as you explore the dunj. You can also make gifts using a simple crafting system to give to romance partners and increase their experience faster. There are also clothes you can make to deal bonus damage, a slew of other bonuses, or even unlock alternate music. Running back through the dungeons to try and find all the recipes did give them a little incentive of extra replayability. Some of the Zine powers do unfortunately introduce gameplay bugs, though, like getting destroyed by your own weapon's power or getting stuck behind walls.Recipe hunting was my main motivation toward the end as I finished up the remaining character stories quickly. I was glad to focus on something other than their problems and the awkward romantic interactions I accidentally got myself into. Also, it seems that the weapon you beat the replayable final battle with sort of gets the last word in with you, almost cementing them as your final "choice." Almost. The messiness of dating everyone at once meant I didn't really feel all that close to anyone – if anything, I just felt a little guilty.
Axiom Verge 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/axiom-verge-2-review|Axiom Verge 2 heard you liked Metroid, so it put Metroid in your Metroid so you can blast baddies and hunt for hidden goodies across two sprawling 2D maps at the same time. Granted, opening a game review with an Xzibit reference in 2021 might be a bit outdated, but Axiom Verge 2 is anything but: it infuses its retro-inspired sequel with contemporary ideas like fast-travel to minimise backtracking and an optional approach to the bulk of its boss fights in order to make progression smoother for players of all skill levels. This focus on accessibility comes at a cost, though, resulting in a Metroidvania that’s consistently rewarding to explore but noticeably lacking in combat challenge and diversity.Axiom Verge 2’s story is fleshed out by countless hidden notes and computer terminal messages, but I won’t even attempt to summarise it since it’s dense with the same sort of pseudo-scientific technobabble that pervades its 2015 predecessor. Lingo-heavy lore aside, I found the basic plight of its main character, Indra, more than enough to propel me forward through the roughly eight-hour adventure; after she arrives at an Antarctic research base looking for her missing daughter, one thing leads to another and she suddenly has the power to absorb the unique abilities of nanomachines known as Arms. That’s really all the setup and motivation I needed.Axiom Verge 2 may feature an entirely new lead character and setting, but what really sets it apart from the original game is the ability to phase in and out of the Breach; an alternate dimension running parallel with the main overworld sort of like Stranger Things’ Upside Down if it was being emulated on a Game Boy Color. Each side of the dimensional divide has its own unique map structure and feel; Indra’s world features arcane ruins and dimly lit caverns to explore, while the more abstract Breach consists of chunky, hypercolour platforms and pulses to the sound of a bouncing chiptunes soundtrack.This contrast doesn’t just make for appealing shifts in aesthetics, it brings a literal extra dimension to navigating your way through Axiom Verge 2. Not only do you need to puzzle your way to unlock gates and uncover hidden power-ups within each separate world as per the tried-and-tested Metroid template, but you also use interdimensional tears to hop back and forth between realms to circumnavigate obstacles in one dimension by finding an alternate path in the other. Orienting yourself in two places at once inspires a degree of non-linear navigation that’s a consistently absorbing challenge as a result.It’s also a mechanic that continues to evolve over the course of the journey. Initially, you can only shift from one world to the other at predetermined Breach gates on each map, but eventually Indra is given the ability to both reveal hidden tears and also manipulate the placement of a tear in order to crossover to more precise areas. Not being able to see exactly where you’re going does introduce some trial and error, but the ability to fast-travel to any previously discovered save point gave me the freedom to experiment with blind leaps between worlds, knowing that I could beam back for a do-over if I accidentally blinked into the wrong spot.Even with double the map to cover, I found Axiom Verge 2 to be far more intuitive to explore than the original game. Each area of both maps feels far more distinct in terms of terrain, and a compass found early on subtly steers you towards your next objective. Any backtracking I did was typically with a clear purpose, to return to that suspiciously fragile-looking wall after I’d unlocked Indra’s shockwave power, perhaps, as opposed to pacing back and forth across multiple rooms because I had trouble distinguishing one from the next. Meanwhile, Indra only grows more fun to control over the course of the journey, consuming a steady diet of power-ups that transform her over time from humble platforming heroine to shapeshifting Swiss Army Knife equipped to scale almost every structure in her path.However, compared to its clever dual-world exploration, Axiom Verge 2’s combat is fairly one-dimensional. There’s certainly a healthy variety of enemy types to contend with in both maps, with mechanical kill-bots of all shapes and sizes in Indra’s world and a gaggle of more amorphous organisms in the breach, but the arsenal you’re given to tackle them with is surprisingly conservative compared to the the two-dozen or so different projectile types that could be bolted onto the original game’s transforming Disruptor rifle.Indra begins with a pickaxe for close-up attacks and a boomerang for ranged assaults, while her drone – which she must pilot remotely through the Breach zones – can swing a tethered spinning blade and use a grappling hook to launch itself at enemies like a pinball. But despite the handful of additional melee weapons to find and the inclusion of a skill tree to upgrade basic attributes like attack speed and power, my simple slash-’em-up method for fighting didn’t ever change – because it didn’t need to. I never stopped to ponder if I should be using the bronze axe or if I should switch to the sickle sword because the right tool for the job always seemed to just be whatever I happened to have equipped at that moment. There were certainly visceral thrills to be had smashing my way through each roomful of robotic hordes, and the fighting is certainly fluid, but I wish I’d felt as inspired to cave in heads as I was figuring out ways to head into caves.Axiom Verge 2 attempts to inject some strategy into fights by giving Indra the ability to hack enemies and other objects, but I found this feature much more useful for passive jobs like triggering switches to open doors or to hijack moving platforms than I did for any meaningful combat gains. If you’re close enough to latch onto an enemy within Indra’s small hacking radius, you’re likely close enough to slash them to bits rather than take that extra step to hack their movement speed in order to slow them down first. And if you happen to take a few blows in the process, you can be guaranteed that seemingly every other enemy you dispatch will leave enough health orbs behind to keep you continuously topped up anyway.Boss fights are similarly straightforward, should you choose to take them on. While the standard approach to boss fights in Metroidvania games is to trap you in a fenced-off area and force you into a claustrophobic confrontation with a monolithic monster, Axiom Verge 2 allows you to take a pacifist’s approach if you’d prefer. With rare exception, you can just evade each boss entirely and continue on your way to your next story objective, which will likely be a welcome feature for people who tend to bounce off these kinds of games when the going gets tough. (The couple of boss encounters that are mandatory grant you with unlimited respawns to help get you through.)The problem is that if, like me, you relish the tension and eventual dopamine hit of toppling a towering behemoth often by the skinniest sliver of your health bar, then you’ll likely be disappointed in Axiom Verge 2’s boss battles. While they certainly look imposing, from a marauding mechanized bull to a downsized Death Star, few require much in the way of strategy beyond maybe a quick hack to short-circuit their defence systems followed up with some frenzied slashes until they explode. There are no distinct waves of attack to analyse and adapt to, nor is there any requirement to experiment with Indra’s expanding set of abilities in order to overcome them. I went into Axiom Verge 2 hoping for the next Hollow Knight, but what I got instead was a series of hollow victories.While there aren’t individual difficulty modes to select, you can hop into the pause menu and increase the enemy damage multiplier to up the challenge a bit. But this just makes the combat more attritional as opposed to making it any more dynamic.I found the boss fights to be so underwhelmingly innocuous and repetitive, in fact, that I didn’t actually realise I was fighting Axiom Verge 2’s final boss until after I’d beaten it and was suddenly watching the credits roll. It brought the experience to what felt like a very abrupt ending, and left many of the power-ups I acquired deep in the latter half feel significantly underused. I admittedly went back to my pre-end boss save game and spent another few hours hunting for secrets by using these late-game abilities, like breaking up into a cloud of nanites to pass through steel grates into walled-off areas or piloting a remote-controlled boomerang to hit otherwise unreachable switches. These power-ups were certainly fun to use, but scouring the two maps for more skill upgrades after I’d already comfortably beaten the biggest enemy threats only felt worthwhile mainly from a completionist’s standpoint.
Boomerang X Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/boomerang-x-review|The intriguing art-style and combat of Boomerang X is what drew me in, but the boomerang itself is what hooked me. The four-sided weapon wielded by your unnamed hero gave me serious Krull vibes, a terrible 1980s fantasy movie I loved dearly in which the main character wields a five-sided version called the Glaive.As a kid, it captured my imagination – and while that movie doesn't hold up nearly as well as I wanted it to, the basic premise of flinging a bladed weapon at fantastical baddies is something Boomerang X has finally arced back around to deliver to me. I'm grateful my love of a bad '80s movie pushed me to give Boomerang X a try, because this stylish twist on a retro FPS is great even without the niche nostalgia trip.There's little in the way of story here: you're sailing along in a wooden boat only to be shipwrecked on a mysterious island, and the only path off the beach is into a cave where you find your magical boomerang weapon. Along the way, Boomerang X tells you the rest of what you need to know mostly through its environments.You’ll pass through a ruined village, and if you look into the right houses you can spot the remains of the island's original inhabitants. There are a few friendly creatures who offer context for the current state of the island through text dialogue, as well as explaining a little of the history of your boomerang. But for the most part it's very "show, don't tell," and that compliments the mysterious attitude of Boomerang X perfectly.Boomerang X's cell-shaded graphics work with that attitude excellently as well. I played on Nintendo Switch and didn't notice any major framerate dips, even when the arenas were overrun with enemies. It's also available on PC, and I have to imagine playing with a mouse and keyboard is the superior way to play (because it always is for FPS games) but with the Pro Controller and a smart auto-aim system, I still had a great time.Once you get past the brief intro, it's game on. You're immediately thrown into a battle with mysterious beasts, their only defining features being their dark shadowy shapes and the occasional colored weak points. They remind me very much of the Shadow Beasts in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, and that's not the only Nintendo vibe Boomerang X throws off (but more on that later). Some creatures resemble horrible bloated spiders, while others look like nightmare squid who've learned to free themselves from the shackles of their oceanfaring lives.As you move through the world of Boomerang X you’ll discover more kinds of enemies, each with different attacks and powers. Some of them, like the aforementioned spiders, are as simple to kill as aiming your boomerang and letting it fly. Others, like the strange summoning demons a little later on, can only be destroyed with a well-aimed shot at their crystalline weak points. I enjoyed the variety of enemies, and how each new area seemed to bring with it a new challenging foe. Figuring out the best course of attack for some of the tougher creatures added a nice strategic element to Boomerang X beyond just having well-placed throws.In addition to discovering new, tougher enemies as you progress deeper into the mysterious island, you also unlock more powers for your boomerang. At first, you merely toss the boomerang and it does what you'd expect it to do: hits things then comes back. As you go further, you’ll learn how to instantly recall the boomerang or charge it for longer throws, and soon after that you start unlocking its true potential as a weapon.That includes more powerful effects like slowing time, using it as a grappling hook, and even stronger attacks. Its power scales up perfectly, and I definitely needed to master almost every different type of attack and unique power to win some of the later, tougher battles. Fights are also incredibly enjoyable because they require constant motion, and the clever powers of your boomerang make it possible to move around the battlefield quickly and smoothly.Remember how I said it gives off serious Nintendo vibes? The Twilight Princess comparison is apparent from the very first enemy you face, but Boomerang X also gave me a serious Metroid Prime feeling, and that's a great feeling for a game to give. You start off with nothing, very little in the way of story or context, and become more powerful and learn about your environment as you progress.It’s not actually a Metroidvania though, as Boomerang X is completely linear and missing their crucial exploration element. There are no branching pathways, no backtracking, no doors or portals you need to return to once you unlock the proper boomerang power. You simply go into one arena, defeat the enemy waves, and move onto the next. Yes, you gain new powers and increase your shield several times over during the course of Boomerang X, but there's no wandering here.I still had a lot of fun within its rigid structure, but I would have loved to be able to explore this tiny island world for myself. That’s especially true because Boomerang X is a pretty short game. I was able to beat it in around three hours, and that was a fairly leisurely pace. After beating it, a New Game+ is unlocked (and I immediately started playing through it again), but I was enjoying Boomerang X so much that I was left wanting more than to replay it with my powers intact.
Pokemon Unite Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/pokemon-unite-review|The concept of a free-to-play Pokemon MOBA probably sounds like a dream come true to some people and a shameless cash grab to others. As a longtime fan of both Pokemon and Dota 2, I had my doubts about whether Pokemon Unite could successfully mix the best parts of these disparate gaming worlds, but my skepticism turned to delight after seeing how much fun this mobile brawler could actually be... at least for a little while. Unfortunately, Pokemon Unite only partially sticks the landing, resulting in an enjoyable casual MOBA with some dubious microtransactions and little interest in pushing the boundaries of the genre.Pokemon Unite’s premise will be instantly recognizable to anyone who has so much as glanced at a MOBA in the last 10 years: two teams of five players, two symmetrical lanes littered with auto-defending towers, and a “jungle” full of neutral enemies filling the space in the middle and around the edges. Each player takes direct control of a single Pokemon from a decent roster of 21 (including favorites like Greninja and Garchomp) that gets stronger as the match goes on. You’ll clash along the lanes, killing your opponents and pushing toward enemy towers until one team has been driven back to their base, forced to watch helplessly as their towers fall.Except they don’t actually fall, in Unite’s case. Rather than ending with the spectacular destruction of the enemy’s base, Unite’s matches are on a 10-minute timer with the winning team being whichever squad scores the most points before the buzzer sounds. These points, called Aeos Energy, are collected by defeating the wild Pokemon that spawn around the map, then banked by dunking them Space Jam-style into the enemy team’s Goal Zones, which are Unite’s version of the towers that defend each lane. It’s a cute spin on the established genre mechanics, but the match timer and simplicity of these static objectives eventually left me feeling like I was replaying the same match over and over no matter what Pokemon I selected.I quickly started to notice parallels between Unite and another MOBA that tried to make the genre more accessible: Blizzard’s Heroes of the Storm, which has been quietly plugging along since development was slowed in 2018. Both games have a similarly simplified take on character progression, with each of Unite’s Pokemon having access to just two activated skills during a match (in addition to two set passives and a slow-charging ultimate ability). Each activated skill can branch into one of two options as you level up, allowing you to lightly customize your playstyle mid-match. Take Cinderace, a speedy ranged attacker who, at level 8, can choose between Flame Charge, a damaging dash attack, or Feint, an evasive buff perfect for outplaying. This pared-down system makes your customization choices slim compared to games like League of Legends or Dota 2, but each Pokemon at least feels distinct from the others even within these strict confines, and I was able to find two or three Pokemon that fit my playstyle in just a few matches.After an hour or two of playing, your Pokemon will gain access to three Held Item slots and a Battle Item that add some much needed pre-match depth to the strict A/B nature of leveling. You might take Leftovers, Shell Bell, and a Potion into battle to give yourself extra healing in a pinch, or X-Attack, Scope Lens, and Muscle Band to increase your Pokemon’s burst damage potential. There's even a helpful option to see what builds high level players are using. Pokemon are all slotted into different roles, such as Defender or All-Around, but with the right approach many can break out of their intended playstyle. For example, Held Items are impactful enough that the Support Pokemon Eldegoss can use its superior speed and healing skills to become a formidable fighter too, which is a rewarding level of flexibility to have if you are a player who likes to experiment with unique builds.In true free-to-play fashion, Pokemon Unite launched with a full suite of purchasable Pokemon, cosmetics, and upgrades just waiting for mom’s credit card to set them free. After completing the tutorial and collecting the Day 1 rewards, you will own five Pokemon out of its current roster of 21. Only Pokemon you own can be used in Ranked mode, whereas Standard and Quick matches give you access to an extra set of four rotating daily Pokemon. After that, you can unlock Pokemon for free at a notably slow pace through in-game currency or login rewards – otherwise they will cost you $6-10 each (unsurprisingly, beloved Pokemon like Lucario, Greninja, and Gengar are the most expensive and seemingly some of the most powerful).Thankfully Pokemon selection rarely feels like a major issue with regards to game balance since both teams can use the same Pokemon simultaneously, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t pay-to-win concerns elsewhere. The effects of the aforementioned Held Items can be improved significantly with a currency called the Item Enhancer. You slowly earn this currency as you play, but spending enough real money will let any player gain instant access to a full set of max level Held Items and a noticeable advantage over a free-to-play field with the same playtime.For reference, after dozens and dozens of games I'm not even close to having a single held item maxed, where spending roughly $40 could let you max one out right away. Early community estimations indicate that a single maxed Held Item like the Muscle Band could increase your DPS by up to 10% at level 1. It’s incredibly concerning that a game which encourages competitive play (Held Items are freely allowed in Ranked mode) would allow you to fast track such an obvious advantage for real money, even if these items can be slowly leveled without it. Of course, 10% is not nearly enough to guarantee an instant win, but knowing a small number of players are out there battling with any paid advantage is enough to leave a sour taste in my mouth.Rounding out the microtransactions is the cosmetics store, which allows you to purchase skins for your trainer and Pokemon using the different currencies earned through playing. These outfits have no impact on the matches, and the trainer items even feel a little silly considering how rarely other players will see them. But it is worth noting these are some of the most expensive in-game purchases, with some of the featured outfits costing $10-20 each.Once you find a Pokemon and build that works for you, the actual PVP combat is very satisfying. There are plenty of opportunities to outplay and outsmart your opponents using a combination of your skills, items, and the terrain itself. Escaping a sudden gank or wiping the enemy team with a well-placed ultimate is just as satisfying here as it is in any other MOBA (although the chance you are ruining a literal 10-year-old’s day seems much higher), and it's even more fun when you’re pulling those moves off with your friends using the lobby matchmaking system.Thankfully Unite’s quick matches, small maps, and low cooldowns provide plenty of opportunities for glorious combat, but a good individual performance doesn’t always translate to overall success. The more Aeos energy you gather, the longer the animation takes to dunk it, which can be cancelled by taking any damage. It's frustrating to dominate your lane and build up a healthy supply of Aeos only to be locked out from scoring by the smallest attacks from the opposing team. Perhaps by design, Unite encourages you to move with your team, find your objective, then fight as a unit. This encourages good teamwork fundamentals, but also results in a noticeable lack of strategic variety – especially when the Ranked mode only has a single map. That feeds into my biggest complaint with Unite, and another issue it shares with Heroes of the Storm: map objectives are too powerful to ignore.In a game like Dota 2 there are many ways to win. The team you draft, your lane configurations, and even small decisions like where you place a ward create the story of the match. In Unite, too many games can simply come down to Zapdos, a powerful wild Pokemon that spawns in the middle of the map in the match’s final minutes. Whichever team lands the killing blow is given a massive amount of Aeos energy and the ability to score instantly for a short time. Paired with the decision to reward double points during the same time period, this advantage is too powerful to ignore, offering an insurmountable win for the leading team or an instant comeback for the trailing team with no time left on the clock for a response. Unite’s short match time alleviates some of that pain, but it still hurts to watch your hard-fought battle fall apart over one bad engagement.Of course, this sort of last minute swing can happen in many multiplayer games, but what makes Unite uniquely frustrating in these high pressure moments is its sometimes unwieldy controls, which quite literally takes some of your control away. As of right now Unite can only be played with a controller on Switch, using an impressively slick scheme that undoubtedly makes it the easiest MOBA to quickly pick up I’ve ever played. Even the most inexperienced player should be able to understand the basics of moving, attacking, and using abilities thanks to the informative (and occasionally overbearing) user interface.But the lack of a cursor means you rely on “smart” targeting, using a series of customizable options buried in the settings to decide how your character behaves. Even after tweaking those options, I noticed my Pokemon might choose to target the enemy tank instead of the escaping healer, or my skill reticle may snap to a nearby wild pokemon instead of the approaching ganker. In dire moments, like the aforementioned Zapdos fights, this unlucky targeting may be the factor that decides the entire game, leaving me wondering which option I needed to toggle to prevent future flukes.Some of these complaints may be a little deep in the tall grass for a game that clearly hopes to be a beginner-friendly introduction to the genre – and based on the near instant queue times I have experienced so far, that angle seems to be doing a good job of drawing people in. (The online experience in general is incredibly smooth when using a wired connection, and even features the invaluable ability to reconnect after a dropped connection or rare game crash.) There are even less complex 3v3 and 4v4 Quick match modes that feature smaller maps and slimmed down objectives to really let the combat shine. But Unite’s over-dedication to simplicity can occasionally feel more obtuse than accessible.For example, you cannot see either team’s score during a match, so how close a game is largely remains a mystery until the end. There’s no indication of which attacks deal Physical or Special damage, and item descriptions can be similarly vague. And while the six in-game tutorials are enough to get you started, they don’t explain some of Unite’s own core concepts like lane assignments, jungling, or teleporting, leaving MOBA newcomers underprepared.The disorder continues outside of matches as well due to Unite’s labyrinth of laggy menus, reward paths, and customization options. After spending way too long digging through your battle pass and daily rewards, you have to figure out how to spend your five different currencies at one of the three different in-game stores. A “Claim All” option for your quest rewards and a simplified storefront would do wonders for navigation, but Pokemon Unite is content to follow the industry norms rather than imagine ways they could be better.
Eldest Souls Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/eldest-souls-review|Perhaps no modern game is more blunt about its influences than Eldest Souls. Despite having a name that would make a copyright lawyer sweat, this overtly FromSoftware-inspired action game manages to establish its own blend of addictive, brutal combat and gorgeous art direction that rivals its 2D and 3D peers. It doesn’t mirror their same sense of exploration, but if a souls-like focused almost exclusively on boss battles sounds great to you, look no further.Eldest Souls’ artistic and narrative influences aren’t so much worn on its sleeve as they are written on a signboard draped around its body. Borrowing heavily from Dark Souls’ infamous intro, it establishes a world where men and gods came into being at the same time, but mortals eventually found themselves subjugated thanks to the machinations of a god named Eksyll. Humanity revolted, caging the gods inside of a massive Citadel, bringing peace to the land...until Eksyll showed up again, committed some heinous experiments on his fellow gods, and brought about the near-extinction of humanity. Now it’s up to one final hero with an oversized obsidian sword to kill every remaining god still dwelling inside the Citadel and sort out the world’s fate. It doesn’t even get close to the lofty heights of Gwyn or Artorias’ fates, and it’s fairly average stuff for dark fantasy lovers, but it’s still entirely serviceable for what we’re here for: big, beefy boss battles.Switching influences, Eldest Souls’ combat takes more inspiration from Bloodborne than it does Dark Souls, with a quicker pace and emphasis on aggression. With your giant obsidian sword, you can use a basic swing, a dash, a charge attack, and a powerful “bloodburst” attack that drains your charge. There are no enemies to fight outside of its 10 bosses, so you’re never more than a few hits from death. To that end, Eldest Souls very much encourages an in-your-face play style, with charged and bloodburst attacks replenishing small fragments of health, much like Bloodborne. What results is a nearly nonstop dance of dodging and exchanging desperate blows.A skill tree lets you specialize your combat style between three branching options as you progress: Windslide, which focuses on movement and speed, Berserk, which improves your damage output, and Counter, which buffs your defensive options. Equippable “shards” gained from defeated bosses can also give you extra abilities or buffs depending on how you slot them for further customization. Mercifully, you can completely respec your character any time between fights. I loved this freedom because it consistently surprised me with what combinations were viable.Going up against Hyem, a frostbitten armored warrior with the power to slow my dashing, I found myself suiting up with a defensive ability that spawned swords of light with each bloodburst attack. Those swords later shattered upon a successful counter, briefly tripling damage and providing me a moment of solace in the chaos. While fighting the feral Deer God, who attacks with lightning-fast swipes and poisonous roots, I instead respec’d to give myself increased speed to keep up with his great strides across the arena, while flaming leaves I spawned chased him down for guaranteed chipdamage. Infusing boss shards into different slots can prove to be an interesting game of risk vs. reward too, like a special attack that deals extra damage but also hurts you if you’re over 50% health, but heals if you’re under 50%.With such interesting tricks to try, it’s a bit of a shame that Eldest Souls can be stingy with its skill points at first. The story is designed to be played through multiple times, with a New Game Plus and Arena mode for those who want it. But on a first playthrough, which took me about 15 hours overall, that focus on replayability means fighting some of the early bosses were slightly less enthralling without a wide array of abilities at my disposal.That said, these fights are all impeccably balanced, threading a fine line between frustrating and devilishly tantalizing. The number of times I came within a millimeter of death, only to climb my way back with careful strikes, desperate healing, and mashing the square button made the victories even sweeter. I died 519 times to Eldest Souls’ bosses, but even when it spurred me to yell obscenities across the living room, I immediately wanted to hop back in for another try. And thankfully it makes doing so a painless process, with quick respawn load times, and even choosing the “give up” option to take a breather only requiring a short walk back to the boss’ arena.With only 10 bosses, I was worried Eldest Souls would be a light meal, but each one and their accompanying arenas are imbued with enough creativity to make every fight feel like the spectacle it needs to be. The excellent pixel art style results in some fascinating animations, selling the corruption of a massive knight as dozens of tendrils spring from his arms, or when an ancient god of light wearily stands up from his throne of massive electrical cables. Its art is equally important in battle, where an emphasis is placed on learning a boss’ tells in order to better dodge and exploit openings.If there’s a complaint to be made, it’s that the isometric 2D format and pixel art style can sometimes result in boss attacks being a little less clear than they would be in a 3D action game. An early example is while fighting the Guardian, a corrupted god who very much evokes Demon’s Souls’ Tower Knight. His hulking frame shambles beautifully, but he turns on a dime so quickly, with nary an in-between animation frame, that it often resulted in me eating an unexpected face full of spear.But the generally fantastic art direction extends throughout the Citadel itself too, which contains a number of beautifully diverse biomes to briefly venture through before the next boss. Embers float through shattered battlefields and down dusty streets, while crystal-clear lakes slowly churn the bodies of long-dead soldiers. A path guarded with laser-shooting stones is littered with the charred remains of more soldiers, stuck in mangled poses that betray how horribly they perished. It’s easily some of the best pixel art ever committed to a video game, rivaled only by the likes of Hyper Light Drifter or Dead Cells.Just don’t go in expecting a very long journey through these environments. While undoubtedly beautiful, each area is pretty small, and will really only take you a minute or so to get around. The emphasis is absolutely on the bosses here, but the world is filled with enough detail worth stopping to admire from time to time. The small number of NPCs – like a melancholic bard, a traumatized blacksmith, or a vengeful skull made of ice – all provide some fun flavor, even if Eldest Souls doesn’t reach anywhere near the admittedly high bar of world-building that its FromSoft inspirations are known for. What I did appreciate, however, was the fragmented storytelling that often came with defeating a boss, when some aspect of its true nature was revealed. Some are quietly tragic, while others are flat out gross in the best way possible.
The Forgotten City Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/the-forgotten-city-review|It’s an absolute triumph that a Skyrim mod could reach 3,000,000 downloads, let alone win a national award for the quality of its writing, but 2015 mod The Forgotten City did both. Six years later, this freshly remade standalone game from original developer Modern Storyteller reworks, refines, and greatly expands upon the same cleverly interconnected ensemble cast and morally provocative story of that already fantastic mod. Breaking away from the Elder Scrolls universe finally allows this terrific adventure to come into its own, with plenty of fresh twists, turns, and a heaping helping of self-aware dialogue that can leave your mouth ajar.The Forgotten City begins as you wake up next to the Tiber River with a mysterious hooded figure. After creating your character, they send you into the nearby ruins in search of a stranger named Al, and the rest is Ancient Roman history. No longer set in Skyrim’s Dwemer ruins, this Forgotten City is instead a gorgeous Roman stronghold, complete with historically accurate structures and architecture, including Villas and a public Forum. It even has its very own Aqueducts that provide easy access across the city. It’s all a sight to behold, and the reimagined look and layout makes that true even if you’re a returning fan of the mod.“The many shall suffer for the sins of the one.” This is the fabled Golden Rule that serves as the central focal point of The Forgotten City’s story, and it dictates that you and the city’s 23 or so residents can’t steal from or attack another human, lest the city’s guardian statues spring to life and methodically turn each citizen into solid gold - trapping them forever. But you don’t need constant combat to make it delightfully fascinating to unravel each of the city’s many delicate layers, and the deeper you go the more obvious it becomes that a life without clear crime is no utopia. The city’s least savory denizens use loopholes, social engineering, and deception to entrap and purposefully mislead one another, skirting the Golden Rule altogether. The Forgotten City is positively dripping with brain teasing moral quandaries as a result – without spoiling anything, there are points where you have to break the Golden Rule, as well as times where you must stop it from being broken, even if it would mean helping innocent people out of awful predicaments.The absolute best part of The Forgotten City is its excellently written characters. Each person has their own motives, problems, and opinions of one another and of the Golden Rule itself to discover, with standouts like the conniving Aurelia being particularly fun to talk to. While I was initially a bit disappointed to see that there were no RPG systems to use during dialogue, especially after a game like Disco Elysium showed just how interesting they could be, the conversations are very engaging without the need to roll skill checks. Those things arguably wouldn’t even fit into what The Forgotten City is trying to do anyway, as its dialogue is tightly written and filled with mysteries to piece together, and your decisions carry more than enough weight as-is.The only misstep with its characters is that their top notch dialogue occasionally suffers from facial animations that range from dubious to outright hilarious. Modern Storyteller says a fix might arrive for launch, but it wasn’t worked out in time for this review, leaving stiff performances from otherwise exquisitely well-written and decently-voiced NPCs.It isn’t exactly the longest adventure either, about 10 hours if you want to see everything and reach the canon ending at a reasonable pace, but it absolutely had me wanting to follow every thread I could find. You can “beat” The Forgotten City early if you don’t want to do everything, but you’re really missing out on its most interesting bits by doing so. It’s practically begging you to tease these layers apart too, and all that intrigue is eventually paid off quite well.In case you do turn all your suspects to gold, The Forgotten City makes genius use of a time loop mechanic to keep your investigation going smoothly. Every time you break the Golden Rule by, say, killing somebody or stealing an item, you must run back to the starting portal and begin the day anew. The world resets to its original state but you keep everything in your inventory, allowing tangible progress from day-to-day and leading to some interesting conversations, such as how you know a character is about to do something or how you have a certain item in your possession that you couldn’t possibly have without stealing it.Retracing your steps each day might sound tedious, but another great touch is that you don’t need to redo every quest each time. You can conveniently send Galerius, the most well-meaning yet tragically impressionable man on the planet, to run off and do each of your previously completed quests for you, bringing you back up to speed every time you need to restart.The Forgotten City has some combat too, but it’s minuscule and quite simple overall. Granted, it isn’t really about action sequences, combat, or platforming – it has all that, but it’s only sprinkled in at appropriate times to improve the pace, and never outstays its welcome. Most of the time, you’ll be sussing out information through dialogue, exploration, and some pretty basic but enjoyable platforming. That last point usually involves shooting arrows from Apollo’s bow, which lets you turn organic material like ivy or algae into gold, providing a solid platform for climbing or launching yourself to the next point of interest.No matter what you’re doing, it’s easy to get swept away by The Forgotten City’s incredibly detailed visuals – another obvious step up from its origins as a Skyrim mod. The whole layout of the world is designed to draw you in and keep you captivated from start to finish. The city itself is built on a mixture of Roman, Greek, Egyptian, and Sumerian architecture and you do meet people from each of these respective cultures as well. But even with the eye-catching environments, some of the most interesting parts of this world are the many smaller items that are decorative by nature, but can still be picked up and examined. Each one is labeled with interesting or educational tooltips, lore, and in-jokes that make every inch of The Forgotten City feel lived-in and real.Beyond the visuals, transitioning to a standalone game has also allowed for the arrival of some welcome quality-of-life features. It’s got less bugs for one, but it also benefits from a much cleaner font and text style than Skyrim, as well as a wildly useful feature that lets you tap a key to automatically follow an NPC if they’re guiding you to a set location. Mimicking a trend among modern AAA games, there’s even a solid in-game photo mode that allows you to capture the sheer beauty of this remote city.
Samurai Warriors 5 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/samurai-warriors-5-review|From the mainline Dynasty entries to the countless anime adaptations and even the The Legend of Zelda spin-offs, the musou formula popularized by developer Omega Force still manages to produce some entertaining battles. The one-versus-one-hundred hack-and-slash action can get repetitive, but each game usually spins a decent yarn along the way. That and the dozens of different weapons available make mowing down hundreds of soldiers an enjoyable way to spend a few afternoons. Samurai Warriors 5 brings all this to modern consoles and PC alongside a visual refresh for its cast of Japanese historical figures that comes together into a safe but satisfying experience.Based on the Warring States period of Japanese history, each Samurai Warriors game so far built on previous entries by adding new characters and covering more obscure historical ground. Samurai Warriors 5 goes for the opposite approach, cutting the roster to the essentials and focusing in a shorter span of time. It may be a tough tradeoff for anyone who’s seen these battles numerous times before, but it makes sense for the type of campaign Omega Force has put in place. Missions split into two paths, with one focusing on series headliner Nobunaga Oda and one on vassal turned rival Mitsuhide Akechi. Opportunities to play as one of the other 37 characters pop up from time to time, but most levels require spending time as the main heroes on the first playthrough.This decision makes Samurai Warriors 5’s first handful of hours some of its most boring, since bouncing between characters and their various methods of attacking is the real joy of a game like this. Granted, it’s easy to replay missions with any unlocked warrior via Free Mode, but immediately replaying the same mission with a staff instead of a sword is monotonous, so I found that it is usually more interesting to keep going with the next stage and hope for some options on the character select screen.As I got further into both sides of the campaign, the mixture of cutscenes and animated visual novel segments drew me in. The refreshed character designs go a long way to distinguishing all the important players, especially for someone who hasn’t spent thousands of hours with the previous games. In addition, the ink and paint-inspired art style gives everything a distinct flair. No one is going to confuse this with Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart, but Samurai Warriors 5 gives the series a standout visual style that impresses throughout.Once you get through the initial chapters and unlock a group of characters, some of Samurai Warriors 5’s true appeal begins to shine through. Playing through a level while wielding a drum that produces energy blasts or an origami dove that freezes foes is what I come to Omega Force games for, and there are plenty of wacky weapons hidden just beneath the surface. It sadly never gets as crazy as Warriors Orochi or Warriors All-Stars, but there’s plenty of over-the-top action here if you want it.Whether you’re wielding a sword or bladed nunchaku, making hundreds of soldiers fly through the air over and over again remains a fun time in small doses. The returning Hyper Attacks ensure that characters never have to leave the action for too long, as their repeated strikes can drag a crowd of enemies forward with you. This both adds to the unintentional humor inherent to Samurai Warriors 5’s hack-and-slash gameplay and keeps combos from expiring as you run between larger groups of foes.Samurai Warriors 5 also makes smart modifications to the tried-and-true musou gameplay loop. In addition to light and heavy strikes, blocks, and Hyper Attacks, you can mix and match a set of four Ultimate Skills on each character. These are weapon-specific and provide both stat boosts and flashy super moves on a generously short cooldown. On lower difficulties, the attack boosts and musou gage refills can make levels even easier than expected, but the extra moves do keep fights interesting. It also lets you save the truly flashy finishing musou attacks for boss battles, which just feels right.Some of the ways that Omega Force promotes these new moves can slow down combat. For instance, there are now groups of opponents with glowing spears or shields that laugh in the face of head-on normal attacks. They only fall to Ultimate Skill attacks – or you can simply walk around them and hit them in the back, in most cases. It’s a small annoyance, though, because these walls of shield-wielding goons can break up a good flow, and that’s a mood killer when you just want to go out there and mindlessly hack and slash through giant crowds.Outside of Story Mode and the ability to replay missions with any characters you like, the only other way to play Samurai Warriors 5 is the Citadel Mode. This is a smaller-scale defense mode that has your chosen warrior running around the battlefield stopping waves of enemies alongside either an AI or co-op partner. Pairing certain characters often can lead to support conversations a-la Fire Emblem, and the missions also earn you resources that you can invest in various upgrade trees that feed right back into the story.Considering how linked the upgrade systems are, it’s confusing as to why the Citadel missions couldn’t have just been on a map alongside all the Story content. I really wanted to invest time here in order to get the most out of my character’s abilities, especially when I was playing on Hard. The missions themselves aren’t anything to write home about, but the prospect of squeezing out extra rounds with more unique characters like the powerful spear-wielding Shingen Takeda or drummer boy Hanbei Takenaka was too much to pass up.Building up your Dojo and Blacksmith allows you to further customize characters, weapons, and even your trusty steed. The usefulness of all these upgrades vary, but you’ll definitely want to at least spend points as you accrue them after each fight. Later upgrades, including the ability to charge up multiple musou attacks and shrug off attacks from archers and other annoying mobs, are particularly recommended for any character who wants to take on the campaign’s later stages.
NEO: The World Ends With You Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/neo-the-world-ends-with-you-review|I’ve thought about The World Ends With You often in the 14 years since its Nintendo DS debut. Its incredible soundtrack, the irresistible vibes of the city of Shibuya, and its compelling coming-of-age journey stuck with me even when the weird intricacies of its plot had faded. So my desire for its long-awaited Switch sequel, NEO: The World Ends With You, was not necessarily that it would answer every hanging plot thread that had been left at the end of a game I played years ago. Rather, I hoped it could recapture the feelings that made the original so special: themes of growth, connection, and love of a place because of its people.While NEO mostly delivers in that regard, what’s also clear is that Square Enix was so eager to at last revisit the same stories, characters, and places of its predecessor that it left this follow-up little room to tell an interesting new story or reach a new emotional peak of its own. Still, it’s a homecoming that’s pulled off well enough, with a flashy signature style and entertaining combat mechanics that were translated surprisingly well to the Switch.NEO: The World Ends With You takes place in a parallel version of Shibuya, Japan, where the deceased are sent to play a sadistic week-long “Reapers’ Game” for the right to return to life. The passive new protagonist Rindo and his charming cinnamon roll of a best friend Fret are sent to this alternate reality after Rindo has a strange and upsetting vision of Shibuya in chaos, and are later joined by the fangirlish Nagi and returning, math-obsessed, former antagonist Minamimoto. Across seven days, the group completes challenges, fights off strange monster-like enemies called the Noise, and solves puzzles set by the death warden Reapers. It's a set-up that will be familiar to fans of the first game, but with the interesting new twist that instead of pairing off, players can form teams of unlimited size and work together as a group to "win" and set their entire group free. This welcome choice that allows NEO to explore a much larger party of allies at once than the first game could, while also opening the door to dynamics between competing players rather than merely implying their existence.Even though Rindo and friends are effectively ghosts, they can still interact in limited ways with the real-world Shibuya by visiting shops or restaurants. And just as in the first game, Shibuya remains a delight to explore, stuffed with fashion, food, music, and culture. It's vibrant and exuberant, packed with real-world references and clearly assembled by a team of artists and designers that adores the actual city. Some of the best objectives in NEO involve getting to know its fictional Shibuya better, whether that’s by exploring its urban legends or seeking out notable landmarks. I loved popping into restaurants to stuff my characters with mouth-watering ramen, piles of fluffy pancakes, and spicy curry, or revisiting shops chapter after chapter to see what hot new couture I could buff them up with.But beyond these bold strokes, NEO is full of small touches that bring its Shibuya to life. You can see them in its detailed art and character designs, and in the flavor text of equipment and the skill-tree-like "social network." But the best example stems from Rindo's ability to scan NPCs and read their thoughts. Apart from the required plot moments, scanning serves no gameplay purpose beyond giving you a better understanding of the world of NEO. Passersby will muse about their relationships, idols, TV shows, food, gaming, school, work, and plenty more. You can't do anything with this information, but these pensive moments are well-written and charming, and help paint a brighter picture of NEO's Shibuya and why its inhabitants love it so much.Inseparable from all of this is NEO's music, which continues in the footsteps of its predecessor as one of the most stand-out and bopping video game soundtracks I've ever heard. It spans multiple genres including hip-hop, rock, pop, and metal, and includes plenty of new tracks alongside remixes of fan favorites – often perfectly timed atop big story moments that excited me as a long-time fan. There are very few songs in this playlist that aren’t earworms, though new hits like Kill the Itch, bird in the hand, Breaking Free, and remixes of Calling, Transformation, and Twister are stand-outs.Alongside its joyous portrayal of Shibuya, what further impressed me throughout NEO were the myriad ways in which it was also able to translate the spirit of the original's mechanics and feel onto a very, very different console – one that, in case you didn’t notice, only has a single screen. Nowhere is this more evident than in the real-time battle system, which layers familiar 3D hacking and slashing with a timing-based combo system and a whole host of customizability. NEO succeeds at the unenviable task of following up a dual-screen, touch input-focused system with a button-based one, while still emphasizing teamwork and "flow" between the different characters.The World Ends With You on DS had you activating ability-granting “pins” in battle by using different touchscreen motions, such as taps, swipes, or drawing certain shapes. In NEO, each character in your party can now only be equipped with a single pin at a time, with different pins corresponding to different kinds of attacks that are each cleverly assigned to a specific button. For instance, the X button will typically have pins with rapidfire, close-range attacks, while Y has fast long-range moves. Each character can use a pin a certain number of times before it must recharge, making it necessary to balance their usage so you're not sitting on your butt half the battle. The sheer quantity and diversity of pins available made finding them, growing them into stronger forms, and testing them in different combinations to achieve a smooth flow during combat a blast, especially in the later chapters and once I started chasing pins only accessible on harder difficulties.There’s also a "groove" system that rewards you with powerful finishers for correctly timing combos and chaining attacks between different characters that is especially satisfying. I loved the thrill of Fret pulling off a pristine combo with a flaming sword, followed up by a big aerial kick from Minamimoto, passing to Rindo to shoot electricity out of his hands for a spell, and wrapping it all up by having Nagi drop a semi-truck on an enemy's head before launching into a team finisher move, then passing back to Fret to do it all over again. That's a peak I was always chasing, but the reality was that I spent a decent chunk of the roughly 40- to 50-hour campaign experimenting to find the moments where it flowed just right like that.Especially in NEO's first half, you won't have a wide enough arsenal of pins to have perfectly smooth battles every time – or even if you do, your favorite pins might be outclassed by less comfy ones in sheer damage numbers. The solution is usually to grind more or try harder difficulties in the hope of getting better pins, which isn’t necessarily an ideal answer. Though it's worth adding that, having appreciated the difficulty options and associated collect-a-thons from The World Ends With You, I was delighted to see these customizations return in all their robustness for NEO, further giving me reason to return after the credits had rolled.Hitting those good vibes are what will ultimately stick with me about NEO's battle system, but the groove had its missteps, too. For one, NEO's boss battles seemed to only either be effective but unmemorable, or flashy but frustrating. The later hours have a number of battles with some truly fascinating twists and turns, but its dodge and camera controls aren't always up to the task of keeping your team out of danger but also in view. Because you only control one character at a time (whichever one last used a pin), the AI is left to manage the rest of your party and will often walk them through poison clouds or directly into attacks that you correctly dodged, meaning you might lose a fight here or there despite doing everything right. This doesn’t happen often, but in fights with huge enemies boasting hard-hitting moves, it can feel more like you're fighting your comrades than the enemy.I also ran into a few annoying bugs in battles, especially in later chapters. Multiple times, enemies mysteriously got launched outside the official boundaries of the battlefield, making them nearly impossible to hit and forcing me to randomly fire off long-range attacks in the hope a few would connect and eventually whittle down their HP so I could move on. One enemy turned invisible (it was not supposed to turn invisible, though there are other foes that do have this as a functional mechanic) and became completely undamageable by anyone for any reason, forcing me to start a chain of eight interlinked fights all over again. Another time, NEO completely crashed as I was entering a very dramatic boss fight. These were small blips in the grand scheme, but happened just often enough to frustrate and merit mention.Story-wise, NEO is as direct a sequel to The World Ends With You as one could want, despite coming 14 years after it. Without getting into any spoiler-y specifics, put simply: if you liked The World Ends With You and are hungry for resolution to the numerous plot threads left dangling at the end of it, NEO is likely to be very satisfying. I highly recommend either playing The World Ends With You: Final Mix or watching the anime first, though – while the characters try their best to summarize certain major events key to the setup of NEO, the weird intricacies of that story can be difficult to follow if you're just listening to characters deliver rushed summaries to a confused Rindo.What NEO unfortunately sacrifices in its success as a direct sequel are its new, original characters. Rindo, Fret, Nagi, Shoka, Kanon, and other new members of the cast have occasional moments of depth and development, but they never quite reach the heights of the arcs in the first game. The first World Ends With You was all about Shiki, Beat, Joshua, and especially main protagonist Neku coming to terms with their own weaknesses, reckoning with trauma, and growing up a little through their connections with one another. NEO's new cast doesn't get the same space to tackle that growth because they're constantly giving up their own time to returning plots and problems.Because of the Switch’s two modes, The World Ends With You: Final Remix is simultaneously a good port and a bad one. Using handheld mode and touchscreen controls, Final Remix holds up as a great JRPG with tons of depth. It packs all the flair and charm seen in the DS original, along with some new incentives to keep playing after the story wraps. But the moment you dock the Switch and try to use motion controls TWEWY becomes a pain to play, which eliminates the fun of the new cooperative mode. The rearranged and remixed soundtrack is great and the story delights, but if you’ve played before you may want to think twice before double (or triple) dipping.Read the full The World Ends With You: Final Remix ReviewWhen they do get a bit of character development, it's usually all smashed into one day here or there, with characters making bold pronouncements about themselves or others with little build-up or explanation. The main protagonist, Rindo, in particular gets done dirty by an arc that boils his problems down to a single, flimsy character flaw he only meaningfully exhibits once or twice. The rest of the time he's not much more than a plot delivery vehicle. Without your lead hero having a meaningful conflict or a central perspective, a lot of NEO’s intended emotional peaks don’t matter nearly as much as they should, whether you played the original or not.That’s a shame, because Rindo and his friends are a genuinely fun group to spend time with, especially compared to the antisocial tendencies of their predecessor, Neku. The writing of NEO is, largely, a delightful bit of work that leans into modern youth and meme culture without coming off as too corny or "How do you do, fellow kids?", and it has both the English and Japanese voice acting to match. The one exception is a spoiler-loaded character that appears in the middle of the story, whose speech felt both awkward and appropriative in a way that was totally unnecessary given that character's setup.As someone who adored The World Ends With You as a teenager and waited eagerly for a sequel for over a decade, I found myself feeling a bit conflicted about what NEO tried to do and whether or not it succeeded. It’s a worthy sequel both in how it captures the feel and spirit of the DS game, as well as in the very direct ways in which it follows up its story. But with such a long gap between the two, I found myself disappointed that NEO leaned so heavily on the nostalgia I had for characters I loved as a teenager, and didn’t do more to embrace the new characters and stories I was excited to get invested in as an adult (and especially the ones that headlined all its marketing).It’s hard to say much without spoiling anything, but there’s a point about 20 hours into the 40- to 50-hour story where it becomes very apparent that NEO is not really about what the trailers and box art want you to think it’s about. That might be fine for some, especially those who checked out the Final Mix version of The World Ends With You or the recent anime, but even those connections can’t magically give NEO a theme and throughline of its own as strong as its predecessor. NEO feels like it’s here to finish what The World Ends With You started, and it does that well enough. I just wish it hadn’t sacrificed its own story and characters to do so.
Cris Tales Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/cris-tales-review|Let’s face it: time travel is ridiculous and doesn’t make a lick of sense. But it’s precisely because it makes no sense that it’s a perfect match for an over-the-top fantasy JRPG, and Cris Tales blends that nonsense smoothie to fantastic effect. Manipulating the past, present, and future to solve puzzles, defeat enemies, and change destinies is absolutely awesome when it works. Unfortunately, when it comes to Cris Tales’ repetitive turn-based combat, I felt more like I was trapped in the continuum’s most boring time loop. Even so, the timeless story, quirky characters, and effortless charm of Cris Tales still managed to make this exaggerated anime adventure a mostly fun ride.Cris Tales’ otherworldly fantasy setting could have been taken straight out of a children’s story book – it’s filled with talking frogs, weird robot thingies, and time mages that make casual use of their awesome power, which no one seems at all concerned or impressed by. Everything about the world is delightfully strange, from the fact that people use marbles as currency, to the strange “Mother Superior” witches that exist in every town to help raise the children or something. You’ll travel through monster-infested salt mines, visit a city located inside an active volcano, and sail around in a boat that’s made out of a giant metal woman’s shoe. It’s one of the weirdest settings of all time and yet everything just had me nodding along like, “Well, yeah, of course I need to retrofit my shoe-boat with metal plating so it can surf through lava. Who hasn’t had to do that?”It helps that the cartoonish, anime art style is brimming with life and personality, which makes traveling this fantasy world a complete delight. You can spend a lot of time just soaking in the awesome aesthetic of Cris Tales’ world, whether that’s through the unique townsfolk you meet, the colorful environments around them, or the bizarre enemies you fight, like a giant, creepy multi-armed robot or a sentient blob of water. That said, there are some performance issues like framerate stuttering during combat and cutscenes that can get in the way of its good looks, but nothing bad enough to seriously hinder my enjoyment.The main character, Crisbell, is your typical bright-eyed, innocent, and unflappably optimistic protagonist who goes around doing good deeds without a second thought as to why she has to be the one to solve everyone’s problems. Along the way she meets an immortal child time mage, an anime robot, and some lady in a hoodie who attacks by pulling random weapons out of a bottomless bag like a murderous Mary Poppins. The cast is universally awesome. That goes for the main characters that you spend most of your time with all the way down to the tiniest supporting roles who are also given their time to shine. I really respected just how much Cris Tales makes use of all of its characters and never forgets about them, right up until the story’s final moments (even though I’m awful at remembering names and found myself shouting “WHO?” when my party brought up a character I hadn’t seen in 20 hours).The story itself isn’t the most original or surprising in the world – my housemates and I all independently predicted the ending after playing only an hour of its 40+ hour campaign – but it’s competently told and well-written for the most part. Saving the world and fighting in the name of friendship and family is a cliche, but one that Cris Tales wears proudly. The story is helped along by voice performances that are mostly adequate and occasionally exceptional, as well as some genuinely rewarding player decisions that let you have a real and lasting impact on the world and its characters. That said, this tale does lose a lot of steam toward the end by padding itself out with return visits to previously explored areas that drag on too long, especially considering the final payoff isn’t particularly inspired.If Cris Tales has one stand out feature though, it’s the incredibly well done and unique use of time travel and time manipulation that sits at the center of everything you do. Because you play as a time mage, Cris Tales involves a lot of time-based shenanigans, both as a plot device and as a gameplay hook. In fact, in many areas the screen itself is split into three sections to simultaneously show the past, present, and future of that location, each of which can be visited and interacted with to complete puzzles and gain a greater understanding of the world and its characters. At one point, I found a struggling artist in the present and saw that in the future he’d turned to a life of crime. After completing a quest for him to support his pursuit of the arts, I changed his future and could now see he’d end up as a successful musician in the years ahead.Seeing your actions have a direct impact on the future is massively rewarding and can have an enormous effect on the world. In one city, I noticed that an area had the grim fate of eventually becoming submerged underwater. But over the course of an entirely optional sidequest I saved someone’s life who vowed to fix the city’s flooding problems, which changed that outcome and opened up new ways for me to interact with the location. Seeing that direct cause and effect so quickly makes Cris Tales’ side quests stand out from your typical RPG, and moments like this can be some of its best when they come together well.Cris Tales calls itself a “love letter to classic JRPGs,” and it plays like one through and through, in ways both good and bad. It’s got the larger than life party of characters and a story that grows from humble beginnings to an epic struggle on a cosmic scale, but it’s also got some of the uglier traditional JRPG mechanics I could have done without, like static save points and no autosaves. Look, I get it. Tradition is tradition, and even blockbuster JRPGs like Persona 5 have largely stuck to their guns on this one, but that doesn’t make it any less frustrating. Why can’t I just save without having to run halfway across town? Does anyone actually enjoy having to repeat an entire section of a dungeon because the boss kills you far away from a save point? Or worse yet, because the game crashed and there was no autosave to come to your rescue?For a game about time travel, Cris Tales sure likes to waste a lot of yours, and there’s no better example of that than your frog friend, Matias. He fills the JRPG role of the animal mascot/wise guide, and he’s necessary to complete most time-manipulation puzzles. Frustratingly, Matias hops along behind you at the slowest pace possible, and attempting to time travel before he’s caught up with you results in an obnoxious pop-up window reminding you that you should wait for your frog to be nearby. If you’re running across an area, it can take 10-15 entire seconds for this green lump to catch up with you, which I discovered is exactly enough time to curse his name and wish an untimely end to his entire bloodline. This issue came up way more often than you might expect and continued to bother me the whole way through.But while the time travel mechanics are otherwise a joy when exploring the world, how they’ve been implemented into Cris Tales’ bland, repetitive turn-based combat is far less exciting. As a longtime RPG nerd, I usually love turn-based combat and random encounters, but this combat system is mostly tedious and oftentimes just downright sloppy.Early on in the adventure you’re introduced to some really unique concepts that make clever use of Crisbell’s ability to manipulate time. For example, in an early boss encounter you have to attack a heavily armored character with water attacks in the present, then send them into the future where their armor has rusted away due to prolonged water damage, which gives you an opening to attack. In another encounter, you send an enemy into the past, then hit them with a poison attack before bringing them back into the present, which applies the damage-over-time effect all at once with devastating results.You might think these early examples would be just a small sampling of all the interesting ways one might manipulate time to their advantage, but in reality this is about as far as those mechanics ever go. After the first handful of tutorial encounters, you’ll have experienced nearly all the tricks in the book and their use thereafter becomes a matter of repeating them to painfully monotonous effect with very few twists and turns along the way. It’s such a massive missed opportunity compared to how well time travel is used outside of combat.Even if you do enjoy the few overused time manipulation tricks that combat offers, taking advantage of them is rarely the best way to get through encounters anyway. Sure, I could apply burn to an enemy, then throw them into the future where they’re torched to a crisp, but why would I do that when I could just one-shot them with an elemental attack instead? It usually takes multiple steps to make use of time travel in combat as you combine different effects like this, but the payoffs don’t actually reward the extra effort when you could have just been attacking instead. As a result, I only ended up using it in rare cases where it made sense or a particular fight demanded it.Combat encounters don’t just repeat the same time travel tricks either, they also reuse the same few enemy types. Simple enemies like wolves and slimes are just given a fresh coat of paint or an elemental remix in each area and thrown in your path time and time again. Combine that with reused time manipulation gimmicks and frequent random encounters and you’ve got a recipe for one of the more mindlessly grindy JRPGs I’ve played in a long while.Sadly, the bosses are also repetitive and drawn out, potentially even more so. Where early on in the adventure you’re treated to some interesting boss fights that serve as rewarding finales for each dungeon, the back half of the journey recycles those encounters multiple times with bigger health bars and damage numbers. Some of these fights can drag on for 20 minutes of attacking and healing while slowly chipping away at a health bar in a mind-numbingly boring and low-stakes battle of attrition.This pile of missteps is an unfortunate miss because the world outside of Cris Tales’ battles is genuinely lovely, but you spend so much of your time in combat that its shortcomings are felt constantly. By the time I reached the end credits after almost 50 hours, I was glad to be done with its bland battle system, which is a shame when I was still enjoying the story itself.
Last Stop Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/last-stop-review|‘Mind the Gap’ is a famous safety slogan associated with London’s Underground rail network, but in Last Stop some more useful advice would be ‘never mind the gap, there’s a bloody portal to another dimension down here’. This character-driven adventure focuses on the lives of three locals who live on a fictionalised version of London’s Piccadilly line, each influenced in varying ways by the mystical gateway that’s opened up deep beneath the British capital. However, while the quick-time events and cinematic camera angles initially give Last Stop some serious Heavy Rain-style choose your own adventure vibes, the lack of any real influence in shaping the ensuing events made me feel like I had about as much say in the final destination as a passenger on the 5:25pm to Heathrow.Last Stop is broken into three separate six-chapter stories, culminating in a final seventh chapter that pulls the three storylines together into a singular climax. You can’t binge your way through an individual story in one block – you have to complete the first chapters of all three stories before the second chapters unlock, and so on – but you’re given the choice as to the order in which you play each round of three chapters. However, it’s not a meaningful choice; given that the stories remain largely siloed from each other until the final moments, it didn’t really seem to make much difference to me which order I tackled each chapter in. Last Stop could have just as easily been a linear series of chapters that hopped back and forth between characters like a George RR Martin novel and it would have made little difference to how the overall story unfolded.There are clear tonal differences between each of the three tales, and that at least brings some nice contrast to the flow from chapter to chapter. Domestic Affairs follows working professional Meena, her struggles with infidelity and being an absent parent, and her rivalry with a young upstart in direct competition for an office promotion. I enjoyed the adult nature of the drama, although the self-absorbed personality of its lead left me a little cold.Meanwhile, Stranger Danger takes a sharp turn into more supernatural fare, with teenager Donna developing an uneasy relationship with a soft-spoken stranger in possession of unearthly powers. It’s a bit like a Stephen King story set on Coronation Street instead of Castle Rock, and I enjoyed the knockabout banter between its central group of school friends. In fact, the performance from the voice cast is consistently spirited across the board, and a bouncy orchestral score brings a palpable energy to the unfolding events.My favourite story of the three, Paper Dolls, centers around a single dad named John who wakes up trapped in the body of his young neighbour Jake (and vice versa) after a mutual encounter with a mysterious commuter at the train station. Body-swap stories may be a dime a dozen in Hollywood – a quick search through the Disney+ library reveals there’s almost enough versions of Freaky Friday to populate an entire freaky calendar – but they’re not something I can recall experiencing very often in video games. I found Paper Dolls to be the most refreshing of Last Stop’s three stories as a result, and the chapter in which the aging John has to go to work as game developer Jake and bluff his way through a day in the office was certainly a comedic highlight.That’s about as engaged with Last Stop’s dialogue system as I ever felt, however, since the choices you’re presented with for the bulk of interactions are more often than not just three subtle variations on the same sentiment. This isn’t some Telltale Games-style adventure where you’re pressured to make snap conversation decisions while weighing up the potential positive and negative impacts on your relationship to other characters. In the general absence of any substantially contrasting dialogue options, it soon becomes clear that each interaction is going to play out effectively the same way no matter which input you select. Having a conversation with someone who seems to have a predetermined response regardless of what you say doesn’t make for an engaging interactive experience; it feels more like being trapped on a bad date.Last Stop inserts quick-time events in an effort to make you feel more involved, but they end up feeling equally as futile. In an early chapter you must press and hold a series of buttons to make Donna climb up a stack of boxes, but it doesn’t matter if you nail the sequence or flub it completely since she tumbles off either way. During chase sequences you’re asked to tap the shoulder buttons in order to sprint, but you still get away even if you press nothing at all. An absence of fail states does at least eliminate the need for any game over screens, but almost every prompt in Last Stop feels less like a stimulating interaction and more like a trigger to prevent your controller from powering off due to inactivity.To be fair there are at least some decisions that have lasting impacts, but these are extremely minor things, like determining which clothing to wear or the nicknames you give to other characters that persist in subsequent chapters. I wish I had more of an influence over exactly what the main characters got off their chests, rather than simply which t-shirt design they wore on them. I’m not suggesting that Last Stop needed to feature a malleable narrative structure in order to successfully tell a story, but when it presents the illusion of choice while sticking doggedly to its own script it just comes across as patronising.Regardless, I remained curious to find out how the three stories would eventually intersect in Last Stop’s final chapter, as the three main leads were each compelled towards the subterranean portal and the story shifted to an entirely new and genuinely gorgeous sci-fi setting. Yet when I got there I was disappointed to find out that the final outcome hinged upon a single binary choice for each main character, which left me feeling pretty underwhelmed. I can’t help but feel that I would have been much more invested in each character’s fate had they been determined by a cumulation of numerous smaller decisions made along the way instead.Last Stop’s storytelling may be frustratingly inflexible, but it at least looks great. Its environments pop with colour and there are some wonderful overhead-tracking shots and clever camera framing. However, this cinematic presentation comes at a cost; it’s not always clear where you’re supposed to go when you can’t control the camera, which meant I often walked down the wrong paths into invisible walls. Similarly, the unheralded jumps between auto-piloted cutscenes and gameplay meant that often a playable section would start without me realising, and there’d be an awkward pause where my character would just stand there like an actor who hadn’t heard the director call out, “Action!” That meant that transitions regularly came across as jarringly stilted where they were clearly intended to be seamless.
Death's Door Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/deaths-door-review|If Death’s Door were applying for the role of an essential top-down action adventure, it would have quite an impressive resume; with its Zelda-like exploration and dungeon puzzles, engaging fast-paced combat, and levels that’re brimming with irresistible secrets. All of this is wrapped up in a world that deftly walks the line between somber and charming, with its varied yet muted areas full of quiet melancholy, creating a sense of wonder and mystery that proves hard to resist the lure to uncover every last hidden path on your way to reap some souls.The premise for Death’s Door is straightforward yet intriguing: Get to work for the Reaping Commission by harvesting the soul of a particularly strong monster unwilling to submit to the mortal coil. However, when the soul you are commissioned to retrieve is unexpectedly stolen from you, your path leads to a hauntingly beautiful undying realm that holds the titular Death’s Door. To open it, you’ll need to search the lands for three powerful souls in need of a good reaping — by way of some entertaining and challenging boss fights.Exploring these forgotten lands is a treat: I tracked my quarry through forbidden graveyards, old flooded ruins, and creepy mansions. The slightly dulled color palette gives the impression of exploring locales long past their prime, aided by slow subdued music and faint, unnerving whispers on the wind. Puzzles are plentiful, and while most play on familiar themes of hitting switches, collecting keys, and opening gates, they were all slightly varied and progressively challenging enough to never overstay their welcome. Even the more open regions have you navigating near-labyrinthian twists and turns until you unlock connecting shortcuts, with clever pathways that had me zig-zagging around to reach a dungeon instead of a straight shot, making each place feel more vast than they actually are. Death’s Door also makes smart use of heights – whether requiring you to navigate layered walkways to find the right path to light a torch, or showcasing slightly blurred areas far below my current path of both places I’ve been or had yet to discover.And plenty of mysteries there are, because Death’s Door crams secret pathways into every region. There might not be an overwhelming variety of rewards to find beyond collectible shiny things or health and magic shrines, but the lure of exploration is so omnipresent it was hard for me not to stray from the main path to see where that one ladder leads to, or agonizing over how to reach a health upgrade shrine looming just beyond a seemingly impassible cliff face. While some secrets are locked behind magic tool upgrades and I had to make a mental note to backtrack to grab them later (in true Zelda-like fashion,) there were always plenty of secrets to expose. Curiosity is always rewarded in these places, and I really enjoyed how the normally static camera would smoothly shift and rotate slightly when I got near something, rewarding my efforts with a view of treasures to be gained.So prevalent are its mysteries, in fact, that even after my relatively brief 10-hour adventure ended and the final boss was defeated I was still drawn to uncovering every last secret – and I was extremely happy to find an even bigger enigma waiting to be solved during the post-game that proved impossible to ignore. I don’t want to spoil anything, but uncovering everything to get a 100% clear rating for Death’s Door was easily worth the few extra hours it took.When not lighting torches and activating platforms, my little reaper crow was up to his beak in enemies to slice and dice through. Combat in Death’s Door is decisive and quick; I learned to strike fast and hard before dodge-rolling out of the way of incoming attacks. Perhaps it's due to my avian protagonist's hollow bones, but I found opponents are rarely slowed or stunned by most of my attacks, nor could I block their attacks, which means combat is a delicate dance of figuring out how aggressive you can be before things get painful. The more I progressed, the more thrilling enemy encounters became as I found myself alternating between rolling between melee attackers, quickly sniping exploding pot creatures, and reflecting ranged magic back at evil mages with well-timed sword swings - all in the same fight. Death’s Door may rely a lot on throwing waves of enemies to slow you down, but it’s thanks to the aggressive and rapid pace of these fights that I never got tired of looking forward to the next one.Added to the mix are a few magic abilities you unlock in each of the dungeons, and like in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, most are part puzzle-solving tool and part weapon. Several segments weren’t afraid to challenge me to use these abilities for both purposes at once, and it was fun to see how quickly I could pivot from activating a platform with ranged magic, to returning fire on archers trying to pin me down. Death’s Door takes a very simple yet effective approach to these abilities in that it only gives you a few limited uses in either application, but recharging your magic is as simple as whacking anyone or any destructible object nearby. That meant I couldn’t rely on sniping all my foes with my magic bow, but I could intersperse quick shots between melee strikes if I timed things well. I especially enjoyed the fire spell’s ability to rip a straight line through multiple opponents, and once I uncovered a secret mini-boss challenge I was rewarded with an upgrade to the fire spell that made it deal damage over time.There’s a smattering of different weapons to find and collect, each with their own strengths, weaknesses, and combo attacks. I became very attached to a pair of twin daggers that strike in rapid succession and give you a huge lunging dash you can trigger after a dodge-roll, but despite its allure I eventually swapped it out for a giant hammer with a larger reach and a chain-lightning effect that I liked even better. While you can’t upgrade individual weapons, I was encouraged to return to “back to the office” through checkpoint doors to exchange harvested souls for increased strength, speed, dexterity, and magic across the board. I wasn’t a huge fan of this type of progression (as opposed to individual weapon upgrades) at first, but as I claimed the few weapons hidden among the isles I began to appreciate the ease of swapping between them for different encounters and not having to worry about being underpowered.Death’s Door also has a refreshing take on health recovery. There are no health potions to hoard or life to siphon from enemies here; instead, there are collectible Seeds of Life scattered throughout the land – sometimes in the open, and other times hidden away. Planting them in pots you find along your route will immediately sprout a flower to fully heal your corvid warrior. The only catch is that particular flower can only heal you once, until you either die or travel back through one of the many doors to the office hub world (at which point all enemies respawn).For the most part, I felt the pots and seeds were evenly spaced and allowed me to heal up when I needed to, although that may have been due to my exploratory nature (I rarely missed a seed the first time through). If you aren’t diligent, you may find yourself facing down a wave of enemies with no health-giving flowers in sight. Thankfully, the whole “Death overlooking these lands” thing seems to extend to the protagonist as well, because I’d always respawn at the nearest door with no soul currency lost. (Not everything has to be Dark Souls, you know!) Checkpoints are plentiful enough that I was never far from returning to the fray.When it comes to dungeon delving, developer Acid Nerve has created a very enjoyable sense of progression in Death’s Door. Each of the three main regions I explored followed similar rhythms: A large and open introductory zone leads to a confined dungeon where enemies take a backseat to puzzles. Uncovering lost and forgotten souls in these dungeons unveils a path to acquire a major magical upgrade, as you’d expect from a Zelda-like dungeon. These magical boons aren’t given freely though, and you have to tough it out through several enemy waves to be deemed worthy.While the process of getting these magical tools made sense thematically, I always felt like the momentum was slightly thrown off whenever I was transported back to the hub world to get the new ability. That required me to then go find the door leading back to one of the dungeon’s checkpoints, get my bearings again, and search for whatever new path could now be opened with my new ability.All of this leads up to a final inner sanctum moment in the run-up to the boss of the region, and that’s where you’ll have to quickly adapt to taking on greater numbers of enemies and even doing a bit of puzzle-solving at the same time. These sequences are always a blast, like having to manually power a floating platform down a hall, dodging moving pistons, and lighting furnaces, all while under fire from ranged attackers on a far platform. Much like the more somber initial areas, the tension in these segments is further accentuated by some excellent, faster-paced music that urged me onwards.The bosses of Death’s Door themselves are a delight, and most would find themselves quite at home in a top-down Zelda game. They mix cartoonishly evil charm with some impressive attacks that often required me to put my knowledge of the dungeon’s mechanics to the test to come out on top. Noticing the similarity in one of the Frog King’s attacks to puzzles I had solved not too long before was a brilliant “a-ha!” moment in figuring out how to deal with his platform-destroying power. I only wish the third boss had as much of a lasting impact as the others, but even the final boss threw out some major curve-balls that made the whole experience a memorable one.While friendly faces in these lands are few and far between, the comedic timing of the few allies I met were a mood-lightening counterpart to combat and the gloomy undertones of my soul-reaping task. I’m not exactly sure why there’s a seafood shop run by a giant squid strapped to the back of a dead guy, or why he’s trying so hard to convince me he’s just a normal living human with a cool backpack, but I appreciate his commitment. It’s equally amusing to have a friendly gravedigger give a short eulogy after I claimed the soul of each boss.Death’s Door is keen to remind you that your task isn’t an easy one, and even if your targets became corrupted as they sought desperately to live forever for their own reasons, they’re still worth paying your last respects to. As I uncovered the mysteries behind this land of undeath, I began to appreciate what Death’s Door had to say about the hidden dangers of seeking immortality, and its quiet pride on accepting the inevitability of death.
The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword HD Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/the-legend-of-zelda-skyward-sword-hd-review|After rolling credits on The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword HD on Nintendo Switch, I feel really good about my decision to spend 50+ hours revisiting the Zelda universe’s origin story, warts and all. I’ve always been a fan of this divisive Zelda, though unlike IGN’s reviewer in 2011, I never thought Skyward Sword could quite stand shoulder to shoulder with giants of the series like Ocarina of Time or The Wind Waker. Even so, it’s a great game, and much of what made it great has aged quite well especially in light of the quality of life improvements and updated graphics. The story and characters are still some of the best in the series and the side quests and weirdness of the world remains fantastic. On the other hand, no matter what you’re doing the gimmicky Wii-era motion control mechanics are still constantly right up in your face, reminding me why those never worked well, and some of the dungeons (and especially the boss fights) aren’t particularly challenging or memorable. But with so much to do and a lot to love, Skyward Sword’s journey down memory lane has kept me smiling the whole way through.I’ve always considered the visual style of Skyward Sword to be one of the best in the series, and the 1080p/60fps upgrade (docked - it’s 720p/60fps in handheld mode) makes the already lovable world of giant birds and creepy mole people all the more beautiful. It’s still not as detailed as Breath of the Wild, but it’s a massive improvement over the 480p/30fps (!) Wii version. Sailing the open desert as a time traveling pirate is bewitchingly beautiful, and the expressions on characters’ faces manage to convey a ton of emotion despite using an art style that’s minimalistic by today’s standards.Creating an origin story for a beloved series that’s had a fairly disjointed plot is no small task, but Skyward Sword sticks the landing with ease. Every character is extremely memorable, whether it’s a heavy hitter like Zelda who’s more emotional and humanized than she’s ever been, or the goofy cast of side characters like Groose, the dumb jock with a heart of gold. Setting the stage for the events of every story that comes after it and creating an origin for the iconic Master Sword are already impressive feats on their own; the fact that Nintendo pulled it off without voice acting and created such an all-star cast in the process makes me wonder what Faustian bargain was struck to make that supernatural feat possible.Following the typical dungeon-delving formula, you spend most of your time in Skyward Sword HD exploring colorful areas, collecting nifty new gadgets, and solving straightforward puzzles as you slice your way through all kinds of cartoonish monsters. Unique to Skyward Sword is that the four main hub worlds are reused heavily as you retrace your steps in your quest to save Zelda, gaining access to new parts of the world as you obtain new gear. The lack of variety is a little disappointing, but it’s not as repetitious as it sounds because world events sometimes change the landscapes over time and hidden areas reveal themselves during return visits.Even if they’re reused a tad too much, each of the hub worlds are diverse and full of personality and exploring them all can be a lot of fun. You’ll hunt for archeological secrets with a Goron, help some woodland weirdos reunite, and look for some interesting secrets and collectibles along the way. The main weakness of the hub worlds is that they tend to be fairly barren when it comes to enemies, which are sporadically placed and serve mostly as a minor annoyance rather than any real or worthwhile challenge.While I’m on the topic of running around: the stamina system in Skyward Sword is still very out of place and not good. It works in Breath of the Wild, where access to areas is limited by a stamina stat that you’re constantly raising, but in Skyward Sword it simply slows you down for no real reason. It’s also constantly making me feel like a wimp in combat when I run out of stamina then have to stop and pant for like 10 seconds while some moblins whale on me. The fact that you can’t increase your stamina or make the situation less annoying except by chugging potions like a drunken witch makes it even more annoying. If I were in charge of a Skyward Sword remaster and gameplay tweaks were on the table, I probably would have just removed the stamina system altogether. Nothing of value would be lost.Side quests aren’t a huge part of Skyward Sword HD, which is one of the more linear Zelda games, but the ones that are there are awesome. I flushed a jerk’s love letter right down the toilet then watched him cry about it, and seduced the item check lady right in front of her disapproving father. When dungeons and puzzles were wearing on me, it was nice to be able to fall back to the floating island of Skyloft and just get up to some good ol’ fashioned shenanigans, and Skyward Sword HD has got those in spades.Of course, dungeons in the Zelda series have always been the real meat and potatoes, and Skyward Sword mostly delivers in that regard. There are some absolutely fantastic highlights, like the time-shifting, pirate-themed sand dungeons, as well as some that are fairly forgettable, like the by-the-numbers Faron Woods areas that I feel like I’ve played a hundred times already across every Zelda game. That’s not to say that any of the dungeons are actively not fun to play – dungeons are easily the best part of any Zelda game and Skyward Sword HD is no exception. It’s more that you can only solve a puzzle whose solution is to shoot an arrow at an eyeball so many times before you’re like, “Okay. Can we get to the boss now, please?”Unfortunately, the boss fights are a little hit or miss as well, with repeated encounters throughout that are only slightly modified variations each time and become monotonous. A few are just forgettable, like the giant scorpion with eyeballs on his claws that could be used as a stock photo of a boss encounter. That said, there are also a few really stellar boss fights, especially in the back half of the adventure (which I won’t spoil here for those who haven’t played yet). When a satisfying dungeon filled with interesting puzzles and a memorable boss encounter come together it’s one of the most satisfying Zelda-specific feelings in all of gaming, and Skyward Sword HD does have quite a few.When it debuted in 2011, there was a lot of discussion around Skyward Sword’s heavy use of motion controls – and now, with the remaster offering both motion-based and thumbstick control options, that debate seems primed to reignite. Even with motion controls disabled, nearly every battle and puzzle incorporates the direction in which you swing Link’s trusty blade and you’re often asked to draw a symbol on a wall or some other task that was clearly built with the Wii Remote in mind. Using motion controls on the Switch, Skyward Sword feels very much on par with the original version, both good and bad. Swinging your detached Joy-con around at an enemy can be a lot of fun, but flapping your arms like a bird to get your Loftwing to fly higher is pretty annoying. And, naturally, when it occasionally doesn’t detect your movement correctly it’s just frustrating and not fun.There are a few moments in Skyward Sword HD, though, where motion controls feel absolutely perfect, like the rare moments where you thrust your sword into the ground during a cutscene or draw the outline of a sigil with your sword to perform a sealing ritual. Regardless of how you feel about motion controls during fights, these small, quick-time event-like interactions are satisfying and memorable.For those who typically aren’t into motion controls – a category in which I include myself – there’s an option to disable them altogether. Unfortunately, the replacement is every bit as much of a pain in the neck and doesn’t really solve the problem I have with the motion controls. It’s not that I hate exercise or swinging my arm around – it’s that I hate how unreliable they are. But the motion-free answer to this, which is the only way to play in handheld mode or on a Switch Lite (unless you buy another controller) is that the right joystick serves as a directional pointer that you flick around in place of swinging your arm, and there are just as many issues with that.For one, you actually have to flick the stick around for a swing to register, not move it slowly. If you do, Link merely draws back his sword in preparation for an attack – he’ll only swing it once you rapidly flick the stick in a direction. Because you can’t take your time to line up those inputs, this means you end up with the exact same issues of inaccuracy as you’d get from motion controls. Which is to say, it works ~80% of the time, but when it doesn’t work it gets old really fast.On top of that, the way the stick has to be moved makes sense on paper but can be a little counterintuitive in practice. For example, if an enemy is guarding to your right, my instincts tell me to input toward the left to hit his unguarded side. But flicking the stick to the left swings my sword from right to left and immediately gets blocked. Like playing with an inverted camera, in order to hit the enemy I have to do the opposite of what I naturally want to and move the joystick to the right so that Link will swing his sword from left to right and hit the enemy’s unguarded side. I might've chalked this up to a problem unique to my broken brain, but another IGN staffer had the exact same issue trying to swing the sword in the intended direction. At the very least it takes a few hours for the unintuitively strange controls to start feeling natural.In fact, I ultimately ended up switching back to motion controls because at least then I knew which way to swing the controller to get the desired result more naturally. That’s a huge miss for people like me who were hoping for a more reliable option, or for people who pick up Skyward Sword for the first time only to be presented with two less-than-ideal options. To be fair, motion controls are so baked into Skyward Sword’s DNA that there might well be no good way to get around the problem no matter what, but either way the route Nintendo landed on is disappointing.The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword will be remembered for revitalizing a franchise that had, for a time, seemingly settled for being merely great instead of revolutionary. Once again, Nintendo is demonstrating its unparalleled ability to craft some of the greatest gameplay this industry has ever seen. Remarkably, this Zelda game manages to reshape its control scheme, design sensibility and pacing all at once while still telling a brilliantly powerful story featuring some very memorable characters. Increasingly Nintendo refuses to compromise cinematic storytelling for gameplay, finding a balance that seems effortless. - Richard George, November 11, 2011Read the full The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword 2011 ReviewOn the bright side, Skyward Sword HD adds the ability to fully control the camera, which was absent in the Wii version, but the caveat here is that it uses the same joystick as your sword in motion-free mode. Since you use the right thumbstick to control the camera normally, when that stick is occupied serving as your sword arm, you instead need to hold down L to move the camera then release it to regain control of your sword, which can be a bit clunky. Still, it’s a welcome addition, and if you’re playing with motion controls (as I ended up doing most of the time) then it’s a huge improvement over the Wii version.Aside from these major changes, there’s also a bunch of little quality-of-life stuff that wasn’t in the original, like skippable dialogue and cutscenes, autosaves, tutorials at the beginning that are now optional, and no more repeated item explanations every single time you pick something up. These are great changes that genuinely add up to make a noticeably smoother experience – although, there is one bizarre one in their midst: the not-insignificant new ability to instantly return to the sky at any time is inexplicably locked behind owning a specific Amiibo. Why? Because Nintendo, that’s why!
Roguebook Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/roguebook-review-faeria-deck-builder-abrakam|I’ve spent a lot of my gaming time over the last five plus years duking it out against all manner of foes using the most powerful weapon of them all… cards. And in that time, two of my favourite card-based battle games have been Faeria and Slay the Spire. With Roguebook, those worlds are colliding. Well, to be more precise, developer Abrakam has brought its Faeria universe across to the roguelike deck-builder genre and created something of a (literal) storybook take on Slay the Spire. Roguebook doesn’t quite reach the same dizzying gameplay heights as that game, but it has a lot to offer, from its clever dual hero battle system and gorgeous presentation, through to its puzzle-like overworlds that are built around the premise that you’re trapped within Faeria’s lore book.One of Roguebook’s most interesting points of differentiation is its overworld exploration. Every map starts out with large swathes of blank parchment and it’s only by using brushes and ink pots that you can reveal what’s on each tile. As you paint, you’ll come across opportunities to draft more cards, to transmute existing cards, and to build up your in-battle energy reserves. You’ll discover piles of gold that can be spent at each chapter’s shop, you’ll collect relics that can potentially power up your gameplan, and you'll stumble upon standalone events and mythical creatures. Working out how to best gather and use ink makes for an absorbing layer of overworld strategy.Each enemy encounter, meanwhile, is an opportunity to test the cards, abilities, buffs and modifiers you’ve cobbled together so far. How well does your strategy fit together, and are you taking full advantages of the two heroes you’d chosen at the start of the run? Can you deal with multiple foes or work around status effects? And do you have enough lethality to topple enemies that steadily build their power? There’s generally a lot to keep in mind, especially as the row of relics and talents at the top of the screen gets longer and longer. These perks, after all, fundamentally inform your choice of cards to draft, as well as how to approach any given fight.If you have the relic Sturdy Shell, for instance, it gives the equipped hero five block each time he or she takes damage. If an enemy’s looking to attack for low damage repeatedly, then, you’ll want to end your turn with that hero at the front to basically negate the damage. With blocking taken care of, this also means you can prioritise attacking or deploying allies that turn. If you have the relic Flame of Ignus, you’ll get an extra energy orb any time a card grants you one, which means you should aggressively draft cards that do just that – as well as more expensive cards and card draw, as you know you’ll be able to take advantage of them.Even the cards in your deck can be modified thanks to Roguebook’s gem system. You may want to reduce a card’s cost, add card draw or perhaps always start a battle with it a particular card in hand. Cleverly utilising gems can have a massive impact on your deck’s power level and I really enjoyed looking for build-defining synergies.Roguebook’s turn-based battle system has many layers. Like Slay the Spire, you’ll spend energy to play cards, you’ll point attacks that do damage at enemies and you’ll find ways to build up block to mitigate incoming damage. More uniquely, you’ll also deploy allies into the battlefield – some of which offer up unique benefits like returning a card to hand or letting you swap hero positions, while others simply do damage at the end of every turn.The design element I find most compelling, however, is the front and back dynamic for the two heroes. Swapping their positions is baked into many of the cards - cast one of Sharra’s Defend cards to gain block, for instance, and she’ll move to the front. Cards with Charge do the same, while cards with Retreat send the hero to the back. Swapping heroes is also regularly used to avoid position-specific debuffs and to trigger effects, while ending the turn with a particular hero at the front is a big part of the strategy as they’re the one that will take any damage.Some heroes utilise a specific position well too. Being at the front gives Sharra a boost to her attack power, for instance, but if she’s paired with Seifer you may want to end turns with him in the lead. Not only does he have higher native health, but any damage he takes adds to his rage meter which, when full, allows him to play a supercharged version of one of his cards.Swapping positions is also a big part of gaining incremental resource advantages. Melee cards, for instance, cost one less when played by a hero who is leading, while Ranged cards are the same for the rear position. Weaving these discounts in while also paying attention to other keywords like Combo (which drops the cost of the Combo card by one if you play a card from the other hero first) is integral to making the most of your turns.Each hero also has strengths, weaknesses and unique mechanics to be aware of. Sharra, for example, can generate Daggers, which are essentially zero cost damage spells. She also has plenty of strong single target attack cards and can cause ongoing bleed in enemies. Sorocco’s cards, meanwhile, are generally a little more expensive but hit harder. He’s more focused on AOE, on boosting the power of heroes and on generating block – and sometimes turning it into damage.As mentioned, Seifer has the rage mechanic, so has cards that generate rage or take advantage of rage, as well as ways to sacrifice health and then heal back up. He can also deploy aggressive allies and then bolster their attack… or sacrifice them to save his own hide.The last hero is Aurora, a low health, spell-casting tortoise who can summon an army of frogs, which all stack atop one another to create a single heavy-hitting ally. Many of her cards are either concerned with her health or are dual-sided. Sip is an example of both, healing for four if Aurora is damaged, but dealing four to the lead enemy if not. Sips are generated through a host of support cards, and Aurora also has plenty of card draw tools.Building a winning deck with cards from two distinct pools is quite fun, but Roguebook’s heroes aren’t all that mechanically interesting. I didn’t want to explore Seifer’s rage mechanic in the same way I became obsessed with orb strategies for the Defect in Slay the Spire, for instance. Many of Roguebook’s best ideas feel game-wide rather than hero-driven. Compounding this, having cards from two heroes in your deck makes aiming for a narrow strategy particularly difficult.You’re rewarded for having more cards in your deck too, with new talent choices unlocked at certain thresholds, and this is very much a mixed blessing. With this style of game, the more cards you draft, the more watered down your strategy will inevitably become. Deciding how large your deck should be is an interesting push and pull each run, but having rewards tied to larger decks doesn’t necessarily make Roguebook a better game.After you beat Roguebook once you’ll get access to New Run +. This Epilogue has 15 levels of difficulty to work through, and a whole host of modifiers to unlock – and then select – that will radically alter each run. Your lead hero might take damage each time he or she plays a card, for instance, or the back enemy may always start stealthed. It’s an interesting approach, but I found myself wishing each row was unlocked at once, as opposed to unlocking each modifier individually, as some were much more appealing to attempt than others.The higher the Epilogue level you clear, the more Pages you’re rewarded, and these are spent on significant meta game upgrades like boosting the starting health of your heroes, adding more energy wells to each map and increasing the likelihood of rarer cards or treasures dropping. For the most part the embellishments help make you more powerful for future runs, but you may want to think twice before unlocking some of the options. Randomising the cards in your starter deck, for instance, certainly has high roll potential, but it can also leave you at a disadvantage. There’s something to be said for starting with a vanilla deck that’s reliable enough in the early game and that you then build on, while transmuting away the weaker cards over time.New Game + represents significant endgame component, but it’s still a shame Roguebook doesn’t have anything outside of it. I’d have loved an additional palate cleanser mode, like daily challenges or the ability to create custom runs for fun in which I build my own starter deck, swap starter relics and so on.Roguebook also has a few issues to clear up. I encountered numerous bugs in my time with the game, from cards not working as intended through to a run in which one of my hero’s starter relics simply went AWOL. I also lost a few hours progress at one point thanks to an issue with cloud save functionality. Thankfully, the game has already received a couple of significant patches, including one after the bulk of my playtime, so things are heading in the right direction.
Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/monster-hunter-stories-2-wings-of-ruin-review|Whether or not you already have your Monster Hunter guild card, Monster Hunter Stories 2: Wings of Ruin stands on its own as a great JRPG. It’s accessible enough for newcomers and younger players alike to enjoy, but with intricate mechanics to keep a more experienced audience engaged. It’s also a beautiful love-letter to the Monster Hunter series, and presents an imaginative world I can’t help but dream about just existing in, as dangerous as that would be.Unlike Monster Hunter’s action-focused gameplay loop of hunting, crafting, and then hunting some more, Wings of Ruin plays like a tried-and-true JRPG. It can be played if you skip its predecessor, too: while there are some returning characters you befriend along the way, you don’t have to have played the first to understand the second. There are plenty of likable new characters thrown in as well, and its incredibly well-paced tutorials both teach well while letting you roam and do as you please early on. Wings of Ruin carries with it many great changes from the original, but some are, unfortunately, a bit of a letdown.Like its predecessor, it swaps real-time combat for turn-based battles, deep customization systems, a copious amount of side tasks, and a heartfelt story. It translates the classic Monster Hunter formula well, except instead of being a Hunter you’re placed into the role of a Rider. Riders primarily befriend monsters (though they still make them into pants out of necessity, too), resulting in a party-building mechanic with somewhat similar to Pokemon, where each Monstie (monsters that are your besties, of course) has different stats, elemental strengths and weaknesses, and skills. This includes your Rider, too, who fights alongside your Monstie of choice and has armor and weapons to craft and equip. Each of the six weapon types have different mechanics, skills, and damage types, and you can equip three at a time. Being able to switch both weapons and Monsties out once a turn without losing an action makes switching between your three weapons and up to six Monsties a viable, necessary tactic and method to keep things from getting repetitive.Turn-based combat is focused on a Rock-Paper-Scissors format with Power, Technical, and Speed type attacks, with each monster species (and Monstie) favoring one of these types. Wings of Ruin includes more intricate mechanics in a majority of battles than its predecessor, with monster parts to break and readable attack pattern changes rather than seemingly random ones.(You can read more about these changes in detail in here).Though the previous method to reading an opponent’s intent was a near-impossible task, now it requires you to simply pay attention. If a monster becomes enraged, takes flight, or otherwise changes its appearance -- like when a Zamtrios becomes iceclad -- odds are it’s going to change the type it attacks with, giving you a heads-up to potentially switch to a Monstie that prefers the advantageous type of Speed, Power, or Technical to attack with. It’s way more doable and deliberate than memorizing a dubious pattern with variables like in the first.Overall, I appreciate the combat changes. They make battles engaging, thought-provoking, and more reminiscent of classic Monster Hunter -- attacking Duramboros’ legs specifically will eventually make it topple over, attacking Kulu-Ya-Ku’s rock with a blunt weapon will break it faster, or hitting it with a Flash Bomb will make it drop entirely. Early on, NPCs will hand out tips like these, but further into the campaign these more often become rewarding personal discoveries (or exercises of previous Monster Hunter knowledge).There’s even more nuance to these battles, too, like the Kinship Gauge used to fuel skills and cool very anime “ultimate” Kinship Attacks, Head-to-Heads, your classic elemental strengths and weaknesses, quick-time events, and more. I wish I could turn off the QTEs so I could avoid button mashing, but that option isn’t available.Eventually though, the length and tediousness of battles against your average overworld monsters began to wear on me -- even though you can triple the animation speed (thank goodness), and use a “Quick Finish” function when facing something significantly weaker than you. The latter was only useful when backtracking, but since the Kinship Attacks that require you to completely build up a skill gauge with other moves don’t actually do all that much more damage than regular attacks and exploiting an enemy’s elemental weakness doesn’t have that drastic of an effect, there’s not really a reliable way to end battles quickly against monsters on par with your own power. It makes sense in a Monster Hunter context for battles to be hard-fought, but for a turn-based JRPG, the idea is less fun in practice.Luckily, grinding specifically for experience generally wasn’t necessary because of a range of entertaining side tasks I’ll come to a little later, and the awesome new innate system that grants a huge EXP boosts for under-leveled Monsties. What a relief, since I loved experimenting with new Monsties on my team.Performance on the Nintendo SwitchLoading times were fast, but very slight pop-in and more noticeable, variable framerate dips were present on the Nintendo Switch. These were more noticeable while docked, and, oddly, during cutscenes. Because it’s turn-based, this wasn’t disruptive enough for me to consider switching over to a PC instead. Other than that, I didn’t encounter anything technical that disrupted my experience as a whole.I only failed against a story scenario twice in the 70ish-hour campaign (which could have been a lot shorter if I didn’t tinker so much, more on that later), as it normally would require my own carelessness to lose. To counter the first, I simply upgraded the armor and weapons I had neglected. The grind for materials is also much more streamlined than in classic Monster Hunter; you don’t need specific materials, just a handful from a certain monster or two you want to forge equipment out of.When nearing the end of the campaign, I found myself and my Monsties getting one-shot by a story boss. It took many hours to finetune my team, catch new Monsties up to speed with the rest, and craft equipment specifically for that fight. I indirectly gained a few levels in the process, and the new set-up then carried me to the credits, which I was thankful for.While ‘Stories’ is right there in the title, the one told here isn’t actually Wings of Ruin’s main draw. The cutscenes are often thrilling visual spectacles, and there were plenty of surprising moments that made me gasp or even get a tad emotional – but this is primarily a lighthearted story that isn’t anything groundbreaking, complete with a mascot-worthy mouth-piece for your silent protagonist named named Navirou who speaks heavily in cat puns. The writing can be funny, and I laughed quite a bit, but there were only so many times I could hear “pawsitively clawdatious!” before I wanted to pawsitively claw Navirou’s tongue out of his meowth. Sorry.The plot itself is actually pretty standard fare for Monster Hunter: something is making monsters run amok, forcing Hunters and Riders to face them. Odds are it’s being caused by some bigger, unknown threat, and it's up to you to figure out what’s going on and to stop it. But while that’s not exactly breaking the mold, there are some exciting subplots that keep things moving at a decent pace, like your newly hatched Rathalos’ prophesied “Wings of Ruin” rumored to be connected to the disasters, your renowned grandpa’s past, and lots of interesting characters to meet and team up with in battle. All throughout, the musical score acted as a brilliant companion, and I could not stop commenting on how great the music was within cutscenes and beyond. There is no repetitive battle music in Wings of Ruin, either, as this changes often depending on a variety of factors, making it so nothing ever got old.The story held on just enough for me to stay invested, but the actual gameplay gripped tight and never let go. I wish I had an endless amount of time with Wings of Ruin because it’s filled to the brim with fun activities to distract you from the main path, and I wanted to do everything it threw at me. I really cannot praise enough how much stuff there is to do in Wings of Ruin, and how enticingly fun it all is.There are tons of Subquests to take on outside of the core campaign missions. Some take the form of especially challenging monsters to track down and defeat out in the field, while others task you with collecting ingredients, a specific monster, armor, or weaponry.Beyond the specific Subquests, from the Quest Board alone you can also choose to take on Trial Quests, compete in a Tournament Mode, and even do rewarding Multiplayer quests – the latter of which can be completed with a real-life buddy, although you’ll be paired with a fairly competent NPC if you want to try them alone. My favorite of the new Multiplayer quests were the Exploration quests, which let me pick up multiple random eggs (containing Monsties) at once. Though I was never able to actually try any of these with an actual person, I’m looking forward to riding with a friend in the future.While I easily spent hours doing tasks at the Quest Board, the world outside it is, obviously, pretty vast as well. When you’re not in a town, you’ll be riding around one of Wings of Ruin’s six main hubs (among dozens more side areas) on your Monsties, gathering materials, fighting monsters, and exploring dens in search of eggs to hatch into more possible party members. The scenery is beautifully colorful, and just exploring on the back of my favorite monsters is a treat. Seeing new areas, like the bustling city of Loloska, or perpetual blooming cherry blossom grove of Pomore Garden, and new monsters always put a smile on my face.Incidentally, beyond the credits there’s even more to do, including some truly exciting post-game content. There are also terrain obstacles while you’re out and about, like breakable rocks or climbable vines blocking certain paths, which only monsters with specific field abilities can traverse. That put pressure on me to choose my team based not only on battle strategy, but field usefulness, too, as each Monstie in your party of six only has one or two field abilities. There are many useful field abilities that make exploration easier and restricted areas accessible, like Diablos’ Roar or Yian Kut-Ku’s rock breaker. But there are equally as many Monsties with less useful ones (some of which I can’t say for fear of spoilers), forcing me to leave some otherwise interesting Monsties on the bench in favor of Monsties more useful in the field. I opted for the opposite near the end of the campaign, where I ignored off-limits areas in favor of a more battle-ready team, and overall had become tired of actively exploring every nook and cranny for items that usually weren’t all that impactful anyway.Though there is a fantastic fast-travel system, some areas are a far ride from warp spots, and schlepping back to those areas for a potential rare item just didn’t appeal to me enough to go through the effort considering all the other things I wanted to do. This fast-travel system has been upgraded from the original Stories by removing the need for an item to warp to one of dozens of Catavan Stands throughout the world, and you can warp to any Catavan Stand from anywhere -- which also gratefully pop up automatically as a quick link when looking at a monster’s location in the Field Guide, too.While exploring these open areas and completing quests, there is a near-neverending stream of distracting shiny objects in the form of new monsters, crafting materials, rare and challenging Royal Monsters, treasure chests, Monster Dens, and the ever enticing golden Rare Monster Dens. The procedurally generated dens where you find new monster eggs are the most important of the lot because they drive my favorite part of Monster Hunter Stories: hatching and customizing my Monsties, of which there are more than 80. However, Speed-type Monsties are essentially non-existent besides Velocidrome until you approach the end of the second area, which took me almost around 15 hours to reach. This is remedied with more variety, complete with a few fan favorites, right after that--but I also learned a few of my personal favorites are disappointingly unridable, like the adorably large Duramboros.There’s much more to a Monstie than just its species and preferred attack type: each one has nine gene slots, which can be filled upon hatching with either passive abilities like elemental defense boosts or active abilities like a Khezu’s Thunder Breath. Each species can hatch with only certain genes, but some genes are incredibly rare and powerful. Because any gene from any Monstie can be transferred over to any slot on another, there’s tons of freedom in how you can build and tweak your team, and duplicate Monsties aren’t so disappointing since they could have a cool gene! So if you want, you could make a Nargacuga with Thunder-element boost and Zinogre’s powerful Thunderfist, or a Barioth with a huge critical hit rate and the ability to heal when landing a crit.The pattern, smell, and weight of the egg gives you a bit of intel on what kind of Monstie is inside, how many and how good their genes could be, and generally just how happy you should be with your pull. Anyone familiar with gacha mechanics will know the drill here, but without the microtransactions and artificial scarcity to drag it down, this system feels genuinely rewarding.No matter the quest, the monster collection and customization mechanic had me searching for rare eggs and happily spending hours tweaking my team. It’s a fantastic system, but it also has one oversight I have a huge gripe with: you can’t see an individual Monstie’s full stats like you could in the first Monster Hunter Stories. You can only see an individual Monstie's best and worst elemental stats -- which I assume is tied to the overall simplification of elemental stats in Wings of Ruin. Even if that is the case, it’s still baffling for a JRPG, especially when Monsties can be born with stat variations and genes that make it no longer match the stats represented in Wings of Ruin’s version of the Pokedex.The expected base stats and elemental strengths and weaknesses of a monster can be seen, but only by sluggishly opening up the menu, then the Field Guides, then the Monstipedia, then scrolling through to the Monstie you want to look at (it can’t be sorted.)It’s worth noting each monster is unique in its elemental weaknesses and strengths, and it isn’t determined by a general “type.” These stats are rated by a point system up to 10. Referencing this, it looks like if it’s not an individual Monstie’s best or worst elemental stat, you can assume the rest are all equally average, normally one or two below the best stat. This would be an argument as to why they don’t need to be on an individual Monstie’s stat page -- but the Monstipedia, of course, doesn’t account for any of an individual Monstie’s genes or hatch bonuses, which pop up on the screen for only a moment, that you can never see again. I started naming my Monsties based on these and it’s annoying to have to do that to keep track, instead of just being able to look at a stat screen. The inability to see my specific Monstie’s Dragon attack and defense is really dragon me down. (What has Navirou done to me?)It’s even more frustrating that at one point an NPC references the fact that the element a Monstie attacks with isn’t its “natural” element, but its strongest, telling me I can see this in the Monsterpedia - but, this will just be wrong for some individuals with specific stat bonuses and genes.This missing stat information bleeds into your own armor as well, but I’m assuming the armor shares the same defensive stats as the monster it’s made out of - so we can assume it’s all average except its best and worst stats. But this might be wrong, I’m just assuming because I can’t see any details. The fact is, I shouldn’t have to be assuming this at all -- it feels like a very strange oversight from Capcom.You can change a Monstie’s elemental attack and defense type if you increase that stat enough, and like in the original Stories, a change to the attack will change the Monstie’s color (though in Wings of Ruin this change only appears in the overworld). However, I’m confounded by this, too. I can reliably change most Level 1 Monsties’ attack element easily, but never for a higher level Monstie. For example, Yian Kut-Ku’s base fire attack stat is rated a five out of ten, and its thunder element a four. After giving it both Extra Large and Large Thunder attack genes, plus a 150% increase bonus, it still reverted back to a fire type after reaching only level 15. I wish I could see its hidden stats to see if that’s the reason, and if this system can even be strategically useful--even if it wasn’t, maybe I’d just want to rock a Red Khezu with icy blue lips! But right now, I haven’t figured out how to get a high-level monster to change attack elements, though I've started chipping away at the postgame which has yet to reveal anything.It’s not like Wings of Ruin is that hard, and its combat is more dependent on decisions made in battle than a Monstie’s minutely different elemental stats, but it’s still disheartening for people like me, who enjoy toiling away in menus to piece together that perfect strategy. My real worry is that this might not be the case when facing other genetically modified beasts in PvP, which I wasn’t able to try ahead of launch -- without the kind of stat micromanagement that powers Pokémon’s PvP, for example, I do wonder how much myself and others will be drawn to play it here.
Mario Golf: Super Rush Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/mario-golf-super-rush-review|There’s an art to how Nintendo usually iterates on its long-running series. That twist it almost always seems to discover makes us excited about what’s to come, while also looking back on fond memories already forged. Mario Golf: Super Rush, though, is an exception to that trend – it’s sporadically fun but it frustratingly falls short of the green more often than not. Its newly introduced Speed Golf mode is a bright point that shakes up the formula, while its lacklustre Adventure mode is a short and not overly sweet few hours. It makes for a package as a whole that offers some of the fun of the Mario Golf games of past generations, but when all is said and done it lacks the variety, replayability, and general amount of content needed to be considered a standout in the series.The original Mario Golf (titled NES Open Tournament Golf) is the first game I really remember playing, as I graduated from crawling around and tangling in my dad’s controller wires to holding the pad myself. The core mechanics remain, and apart from the obvious visual improvements, it doesn’t feel a million miles away from how it did 25-odd years ago: Line up your shot, press A to begin your swing, then A again (or B if you want to apply backspin) to lock in the power of your shot.It’s these simple button presses as the power bar fills up on the right hand side of the screen, coupled with the subsequent sound of club hitting ball that evokes nostalgia and takes me to a happy place. The standard modes of match play and stroke play also provide comfort and familiarity, and as with every mode (aside from story campaign) these can be played solo or with up to three other players for a relaxed time with Mario and friends, but they’re so old and worn that while they’re certainly comforting, they’re nothing to get excited about.The mode that does spark some joy is Speed Golf. Speed Golf is the new twist on the formula this time around, and it’s fair to assume is what inspired the “Super Rush” part of Mario Golf: Super Rush’s name. This fresh take on a round of 18 holes is where I found the majority of my enjoyment coming from. Instead of simply taking your shot, watching to see where it goes, and then magically appearing next to your ball, it places as much importance on what happens in between strokes as the swings of the club itself.Of course, this is done in classic Nintendo fashion: there’s no jumping on your golf cart and slowly driving to your ball here (though now that I mention it I do like the idea of each hole being half Mario Kart track, half golf course). Instead, you’ll race competitors to your next lie, holding in B to dash for as long as your stamina bar will allow. You can also pick up hearts to refill that stamina, and coins which fill your special shot bar along the way. The placement of these items offers a fun tactical minigame to play within each shot, as you must weigh up which is the best “golf shot'' to play in order to reach the hole against which will lead you to pick up more coins without taking too much of a detour and wasting time. One option could lead to a more traditionally beneficial position, but the other could grant you that all-important special shot that bit quicker.As you might reasonably assume from the name, time is very much the key in Speed Golf, but the phrase “more haste, less speed” also rings very true. That’s because each shot you take adds 30 seconds to your time, so taking those extra few moments to line up a better shot will benefit you in the long run because the victor is determined by speed rather than who takes the fewest strokes. It’s a clever risk-vs-reward mechanic that keeps it fresh hole after hole.Sometimes plans can be disrupted, though, thanks to the unique character abilities belonging to each of the 16 playable characters. These aforementioned “special shots” are not only highly accurate shots, but come with effects that can be used to sabotage your opponents. They’re available to perform across all modes, but it’s in Speed Golf that they really come into their own.Luigi, for example, can turn the area around where his ball lands to ice, making for a difficult surface to putt and indeed run on if trying to get to your ball. King Bob-omb can spawn a series of (you guessed it) bombs around his ball that can knock opponents and their balls away if touched. For my money, however, the most effective of these special abilities belongs to Wario: he can usher in a massive thunder cloud over an area of the hole, and anybody who tries to strike their ball at maximum power while under it will be struck by lightning, costing them a stroke. (I hate playing against him but make no apologies for doing so myself.) Although some of these special shots do double up over the full roster of 16 characters (like Mario and Bowser who can both blast away balls on impact), there’s enough variety to keep things interesting and find something that works for you.Each character also possesses their own special dash move when running between locations which grants a significant speed boost and knocks aside anyone in your path. These are less exciting to use, but do still give off the sort of serotonin-filled dose of schadenfreude that the blue and red shells of Mario Golf’s sister series, Mario Kart, supply all too well. All in all, I enjoyed playing Speed Golf and it definitely became my preferred mode to play, especially when compared to the relatively ponderous nature of the traditional modes.One of the only real downsides to it is the fact that you can’t sit back and admire a beautiful shot you’ve made. I’ve only struck one hole-in-one so far in my time with Super Rush, and because it came during a Speed Golf round I never got to see what really happened. Sure, I was pleasantly surprised to see the words “Hole-in-One” flash up on the screen as I was running halfway down the fairway but the suspense of “will it or won’t it?” was lost. There’s no option to watch replays or highlights either across any of the modes, which just seems a little odd. I guess that mirrors real life as you walk up the hole to see the ball already sitting in it, but I’m not really playing a game with a giant ape one-handedly swinging a golf club towards a tornado for realism, to be honest.Further moving away from any form of reality (not a bad thing!) is the new Battle Golf, which didn’t ever grab me in the same way. Mainly that’s because it’s so fast-paced that it’s normally over before you have a moment to really get into it. It consists of you and three other competitors battling out in an arena to be the first to put their ball in three holes. Seems simple enough – but wait, there’s a catch. There are nine flags dotted around the stadium to go for, but they disappear once one of the four players has holed them. It makes for a fast and frantic game mode where the key to success, unfortunately, is to steer clear of trouble and go where others aren’t. Avoiding confrontation kind of defeats the whole idea of it being Battle Golf.The AI opponents are often not the sharpest tools either, and with no way of upping or lowering the difficulty I soon got bored of this mode. When the rounds rarely last upwards of three minutes, that means I became bored quite quickly indeed. Playing online against other humans does give more of a joyful spontaneity to Battle Golf, but it’s still all over far too quickly. It’s not a mode I can see myself playing much more of after my first few days, but it’s far from the dullest in Super Rush.You don’t have to be a hardcore golf fan to get hooked on Mario Golf: World Tour. It rewards good play, gives plenty to do, and is a great teacher. Its incremental approach to challenge kept me coming back to test myself, and the post-game challenges and multiplayer modes inspired me to play in new ways even after I thought I was a pro. - Brian Albert, April 24, 2014Score: 8.6Read the full Mario Golf: World Tour ReviewGolf Adventure mode was what I was most looking forward to in Super Rush, with nostalgia of previous Mario Golf installments once again fuelling my expectations. Instead, I got a largely underwhelming four or five hours. Things start out promisingly, almost like a Pokemon game: you wake up in your home and are set off on your journey to become the very best by your proxy-mother, Birdo. Without spoiling what limited story there is here, you then go about earning badges to build your profile as a golfer before getting roped into saving the kingdom from an artificially engineered climate-change threat. It kinda comes out of nowhere and then finishes before you’ve been given a chance to ask as simple a question as “why?”Now don’t get me wrong, I wasn’t going into this expecting storytelling on the level of Homer’s Odyssey, but something akin to Mario’s own Odyssey from a few years back wouldn’t have gone amiss, either. It’s not really even a Mario story at all – aside from a few extended cameos from some familiar faces it’s all a bit rushed, and I’m sure not in the way that “Super Rush” is intended. It starts slow, as you learn the ropes on beginner courses before developing into a series of repetitive and clunky boss battle encounters which have you dodging attacks and firing golf balls at enemies in moderate anger.That’s not to say that Golf Adventure doesn’t have its high points. I particularly enjoyed a challenge that involved completing nine holes of the whirlwind and water-littered Ridgerock Lake course in under 40 strokes. The twist being that you could do them in any order and continued playing on from the green of each hole, only teeing off once. This turned this into a more puzzle-like section that had me genuinely thinking about what the best strategy to take would be. It’s a shame that this challenge type is only used once, however, because it felt like there was more for it to do.In fact, lots of mechanics are brought in and used very briefly, and sometimes introduced then not used at all. For example, about halfway through the journey you’re given a club that has the ability to make your shots skim across the water, which sounds and looks very cool. So when I was given no real opportunity to ever use this past the tutorial section in which you learn how to use it, I was baffled. More confusingly, none of the other characters have the ability to use this technique in any of the other modes, meaning it’s rendered almost completely redundant. And this wasn’t the only time something like this happened.I would say that Golf Adventure isn’t worth sinking the time into, but the truth is that it’s kind of necessary if you want to be able to enjoy the rest of what Super Rush has to offer. Not only does it teach you basic golfing skills and introduce you to the rules of Speed Golf, but it’s the only way to unlock all of the courses for use in the other modes (Update: Apologies, but I was mistaken about this when playing. You can actually unlock the next course by playing 18 holes of the previous one in other modes. Although this doesn't change my opinion of Super Rush particularly, I just wanted to make sure that I'm not misleading anyone.)It’s also the only place to level up your Mii character, which comes with both pros and cons: don’t play the Adventure mode and you’ll have a character who can’t compete in other modes, but play it fully and you’ll likely have an overpowered character who can out-drive every other member of the roster. There’s a lack of balance to be found here, especially if you want to play as your Mii characters against a friend in local multiplayer, as it will mean they’ll also have to complete the story mode in order to have a chance against you.There are six courses in total, which isn’t a huge amount (especially when compared to World Tour, which had 10 before DLC), but at least they offer variety. The super sandy Balmy Dunes will test your approach play, while Wildweather Woods has (you guessed it, again) wild weather to contend with. They’re each visually appealing in their own ways, and while Super Rush doesn’t look like a top-tier Nintendo game graphically, it bursts with colour – especially when playing in handheld mode.I can’t help but wish there were just a couple more courses, though, even if the handful provided at launch are fun enough. The truth is that unless you’re interested in regularly playing online then there’s not a whole lot more to do after the first few hours except chase your own high scores once the story has finished. Confusingly, there are also no online tournaments to play – another thing World Tour has that has been omitted here, making it feel light on things to do by comparison to its older sibling.All the courses will be unlocked after the story is complete and all the characters are there from the start. There are special club sets to earn for each of the 16 characters that you must buy with loyalty coins earned by playing as them, but this really does pale in comparison to recent parallels such as Everybody’s Golf which is much better at constantly giving you items to earn and a sense of genuine progression. The truth is that after several hours of playing I’d had a fun enough time with Super Rush, but I was left just thinking, “Well, what’s next?” a whole lot sooner than I ever thought I would be.
DC Super Hero Girls: Teen Power Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/dc-super-hero-girls-teen-power-review|If you’re looking for a grim, gritty, violent video game set in the DC Universe, DC Super Hero Girls: Teen Power isn’t it. And thank goodness, because that’s been more than covered – thank you very much Zach Snyder. This version of Metropolis is colorful and cartoony, and its recognizable heroes and villains are high schoolers balancing the day-to-day lives of teenagers with their powerful alter-egos – and for a change, it’s female power fantasy. As an action game, Teen Power tosses together a bunch of basic gameplay ideas, including combat and social media prowess. It works well enough, but there’s nothing deep or innovative about it, and the seemingly endless sidequests end up feeling like repetitive filler after a dozen hours.Even though DC Super Hero Girls: Teen Power shares its setting and character design with the animated series of the same name, you don’t need to have watched the show to follow along. If you have even a passing knowledge of the DC universe, either through comic books, animated shows, or movies, you’ll probably recognize the six playable characters. There’s Barbara Gordon, whose love of tech and gadgets comes in handy when she dons the cape as Batgirl; Kara Danvers, a modern take on Supergirl with an edgy look and a love of rock music; and Diana Price, a straight-A student by day and Wonder Woman by night. On the villain side, Harleen Quinzel/Harley Quinn, Selina Kyle/Catwoman, and Carol Ferris/Star Sapphire become available in the second half of the campaign.There’s a lot to love about this cast of characters, particularly the voice actors who bring them to life. Many actors from the animated show reprise their roles in Teen Power, including the incredible Tara Strong, the longtime voice of Harley Quinn in the animated DC universe. Each character felt truly distinct, from the way they walk (or skip, in Harley’s case) to their combat abilities: Wonder Woman can use the lasso of truth to round up groups of feral teddy bears, Star Sapphire creates a “cage of love” that traps and damages anything inside it, and Supergirl’s heat vision comes in handy when you’re surrounded by rampaging robots. These attacks add some much-needed variety to the combat experience, and it’s so satisfying to unleash Harley’s bombs when you’re in a jam.One thing that irked me about the characters, though, is how often their actions were driven by their obsessions with men. Barbara Gordon is described as a “Batman fangirl,” and despite not even living in Gotham anymore (and being in high school), Harleen still swoons over “Mistah J.” Those nitpicks would be easier to overlook if Carol Ferris’ entire reason for living wasn’t to get back with her ex-boyfriend Hal Jordan (aka Green Lantern). She’s often shown stalking the poor guy, who literally cowers in fear when he sees her, and she’s clearly in deep denial about the state of their non-relationship. I know all of these storylines have their origins in other comics and shows and weren’t created specifically for this game, but it’s still uncomfortable when entire missions are built around this unhealthy behavior – especially when considering that the main characters are all teenagers and so is the target audience.DC Super Hero Girls: Teen Power is technically an action game, but it sometimes feels more like a bunch of side quests and minigames stacked together like children in a trenchcoat. Most of the campaign missions are combat-focused, where up to three characters can team up to fight the out-of-control toys threatening to destroy Metropolis. It’s a serviceable story, but not a memorable one. The rogue toys mostly serve as an excuse for the heroes and villains to team up and fight a common enemy, which is how you end up with Harley, Catwoman, and Star Sapphire on your super team. Like the heroes, the villains have their own distinct set of moves and special attacks, but outside of battle, there’s not a significant difference in gameplay based on your active character.Combat happens in self-contained cutaway sequences, not the open world areas, so you won’t come across any rogue enemies until you start a combat mission. Up to three characters can join in each combat mission, though only the lead character is playable — the other two serve as AI backups. There were times when I led the fight with Batgirl or Harley when a flying character like Supergirl or Star Sapphire would have worked better, and I really wish I could have switched among them on the fly. As far as the mechanics of fighting, the combo-building, special-attack-using battles are reminiscent of the Batman: Arkham series… but only on paper. In practice, combat is more about button-mashing than precision, and the camera often works against you more than the weak enemies do unless they’re in huge numbers. Pulling off a counterattack feels more like luck than skill, and I found myself spamming special attacks as much as possible to get through battles quickly.It’s a fairly low-stakes affair, and beating the hell out of possessed robots and dolls is a fun way to blow off steam, but it’s not particularly sophisticated. The stars collected from battles and other missions can be used to increase HP, boost attack power, and unlock special attacks in a very light skill tree — more of a skill sapling, really. Each fight gives you rewards based on your performance, which is the only real incentive to try and master the combat system. You’ll see the words “level up” pop up in fights, but those levels don’t actually mean anything, since it’s not tracked anywhere else and upgrades are handled separately.When you’re not kicking butt, there’s plenty to do around Metropolis, which is split into three districts the teens can reach by bus. At the high school, you might see familiar faces like Pamela Isley (Poison Ivy) and Jessica Cruz (one of the DCU’s many Green Lanterns). Old City is home to ice cream shop Sweet Justice and fashion stores where you can buy new outfits and costumes. Then there’s Hob’s Bay, which is destroyed in the opening of Teen Power and is being rebuilt by Lex Luthor. For… reasons, Lex is letting teenagers decide the future of Hob’s Bay, which feels like it wouldn’t fly with LexCorp shareholders. That means you’ll occasionally get to choose a new building to decorate Hob’s Bay’s skyline.I just wish so much of it didn’t feel inconsequential. The Hob’s Bay Project is a major part of the plot, yet most of the buildings you construct have no real purpose. New fashion stores generally sell the same outfits as the old ones, multi-story apartment buildings can warp you to their rooftops but have no noticeable effect on the neighborhood, and you can put a tacky pawn shop next to a luxury high-rise with no negative consequences. You can collect plans to build and assign mechanical guards to different sections of the Bay, but I still have no idea why.The light city-building is only one thing keeping the super hero girls busy. There’s also Supersta, the in-universe social media network that everyone’s obsessed with. Some quests ask you to take pictures of trending scenery or top-tier selfies to gain followers and likes. On top of that, citizens will regularly ask for help in the dozens of “subquests” that fill out an otherwise-short campaign. I found myself searching for missing cats, helping an old woman cross the street, reuniting two sweethearts, chasing flyaway balloons, and snapping pics of the hero and villain logos being graffitied around town.These subquests add a lot of length to the main storyline, which can be completed in about six to eight hours, but after a while they start to feel the same. How many times do I need to help this old man find his cats, and why can’t he keep an eye on them? Why is it my job to find every missing phone, teddy bear, and concert ticket in Metropolis? Of course, I still did them, because completing side quests provided me with the money I needed to buy new clothes.While the rewards may have been my top motivation for many of the subquests I completed, I still found them mostly enjoyable. DC Super Hero Girls: Teen Power is the kind of game you curl up with when you want to zone out with a charming, cute, stress-free game. Sure, I might have rolled my eyes from time to time, and I couldn’t ignore the fact Teen Power was designed for a significantly younger age group, but it’s full of wholesome fun. Also, it’s super satisfying to see your Supersta posts go viral, particularly when the Daily Planet picks it up. But after 10-15 hours, the gameplay just feels scattered and unfocused — a jack of all trades and master of none.
Legend of Mana Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/legend-of-mana-review|In spite of the fact I'm a big fan of the Mana series, I missed out on the original Legend of Mana when it first hit PlayStation way back in 1999. I had my reasons for never having played it, and in hindsight they're very stupid: for instance, back then I'd written off 2D games entirely. Now that I'm older and wiser, I recognize the error of my ways and consider myself fortunate to be able to give Legend of Mana a second chance as in its newly remade form. I'm kind of glad I waited, to be honest, because as beautiful as Legend of Mana was even on PS1, on modern hardware it's astonishing in its visual charm. It’s still very obviously an old-school game in its directionless design, but the long and short of it is the Legend of Mana remake is a fantastic example of a 2D remake done right – even if that means a lot of first-timers are going to get lost.I knew this was going to be something special right off the bat because the logo for M2 flashed across the screen during start up. M2 is the legendary development house behind some of the most lovingly crafted restoration and preservation works in video gaming, which includes the software in both the SEGA Genesis Mini and the TurboGrafx-16 Mini. M2 is famous for going well above and beyond expectations when it comes to emulation and restoration, and its work on The Legend of Mana is no exception.The original PlayStation version is famous for being one of the best-looking 2D games on that system. Hand-drawn backgrounds, coupled with beautiful character and enemy sprite work, gave it a magnificence unlike anything else seen up to that point. Looking at the original version, it's surprising how well it holds up. The backgrounds are a little chunky due to the limited rendering size of the OG PlayStation, but the colors really pop.The Legend of Mana remake has lost nothing in its translation to modern hardware. Every screen has been redrawn to work with modern, 16:9 displays. It's quite a feat, when you think about it. Each location looks absolutely stunning, a real testament to the skill and dedication of M2 when it comes to honoring our video game past.The character and enemy sprites retain their original, chunky and pixelated looks and honestly I wouldn’t have it any other way. The juxtaposition of such gorgeous sprite work with the smooth, clean lines of the anime-style backgrounds works incredibly well. It was the right artistic choice because the sprites – particularly the screen-filling bosses – are some of the most beautiful around and it would’ve been all but impossible to improve upon them. The overworld map, too, keeps its original PS1 sprite look but is now in 16:9. It's so charming and evokes feelings of nostalgia while moving Legend of Mana forward. The balance it strikes between hand-drawn and sprite work is just perfection.The music, something the Mana series is famous for, has also been remade with orchestral arrangements of its original soundtrack. You can enter into the in-game menu and listen to any favorite tracks at will, and you also have the option to switch from the remade soundtrack to the original version during gameplay. It's a nice touch for nostalgia’s sake, but since I have no connection to the original I left it on the modern arrangements instead.As far as story and gameplay are concerned, the Legend of Mana on Switch or PlayStation 4 is pretty much the same as it is on the PS1. Since this was my first time playing I can't speak from personal experience, but I can say if you go and watch any part of any playthrough of Legend on original hardware, it sure looks functionally identical.It's fun, with a huge cast of characters, but the overall story isn't particularly engaging or novel. There's a great peril, the world is in danger, and it's up to YOU to make things right. The individual stories connecting to the secondary characters have a little more in the way of creativity, but not much. I did like how some characters' stories play out over the course of several different quests, while others are single-serving, opening and closing in a quest. As far as cohesiveness between individual stories, there's not much and man oh man does The Legend of Mana provide you with absolutely zero guidance. Going in blind, I spent close to 20 hours going from quest to quest, without any clues as to where or what I should do next, before I finally got frustrated and consulted a guide and burned through the Dragon Run path to the end in under three hours. If you know what you’re doing it's entirely possible to beat the story in just a couple hours (the world-record speedrun for the original is about 90 minutes, although the shortened loading times of the remake will make it possible to do it even faster).In my blind playthrough I learned (after the fact) that I had closed off some of the quests through my actions, which meant I have no hope of ever going back to that save file to do a 100% completion run. Since Legend of Mana has been out for over 20 years, there's no shortage of guides to help you through it, but it feels bad to know that playing with a guide is basically a requirement if you want to actually progress the story rather than just wander from location to location hoping one of the townsfolk will trigger a quest when you speak to them.In spite of the obtuse and nonsensical quest structure in Legend of Mana, which makes it feel like a PS1 game more than anything else, I still had a lot of fun playing it. The battle system is similar to the previous Mana games, minus the in-battle circle menus. You come across some enemies, the action switches to battle mode, and you do battle in action-RPG style. You set your attacks to whatever buttons you like in the menu, with different attacks available either through leveling up or depending on which weapon you're wielding. It took me a bit to reacquaint myself with the Mana battle system, but once it "clicked" again, I found it quite fun. There's a rhythm to each encounter, and if you're hacking and slashing just right, you can blow through them with ease while still feeling satisfied with your performance. It's not very deep, but there are some techniques I picked up along the way that increased my lethality, such as canceling certain enemy attacks by slamming them with a power attack at just the right moment.I never found myself struggling with the difficulty. There's no option to play in "hard" mode, but on the flip side you can turn off the encounters entirely if you'd rather just wander around the gorgeous hand-drawn world and take in all the scenery. But once I'd figured out the rhythm of battles and the awesome power of the Counterstrike move, it felt pretty easy. On the rare occasion when I did fall in battle, Legend of Mana started me right back at the start of the action, so there was no need to retread half a dungeon just to get back into the thick of things. That’s surprising for a game from that era of JRPGs, and I definitely appreciated that approach.
Griftlands Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/griftlands-review|At times it seems like Griftlands is trying to see how many good design ideas it can stuff into itself without exploding. Strategic deck-building combat? Check. An addictive roguelike loop? Yup. Multiple storylines with compelling RPG elements? Uh-huh! Visual-novel goodness with social links? That too! Even more incredibly, this hodgepodge of awesome components crammed together into one game create something utterly unique and enduringly memorable.Griftlands is a deck-building roguelike in the same vein as genre standouts like Slay the Spire and Monster Train in which you earn random cards battle by battle until you lose and do it all over again. The main way Griftlands distinguishes itself from those games is that each of its campaigns tells a more substantial story – and for the most part they’re all exceptional. Whether I was playing a mercenary on a quest for revenge, a retired soldier turned double agent who’s playing both sides of a rebellion, or a blackout-drunk slacker who’s been disowned by his family, everyone – whether they’re playable or an NPC – is looking out for number one. They might be looking to make a quick buck, plotting revenge, or making a grab for power, but almost no one is innocent or without ulterior motives. As a fellow grifter in the midst of this chaotic hive of ruthlessness and double-crosses, you’ve got to learn quickly or become another mark added to the pile of corpses; it’s a perfect setup for a conflict-heavy roguelike if I’ve ever seen one.My favorite character, Smith, is an idiotic, carousing, two-legged dumpster fire of a person with practically no redeeming qualities... so I really related with him. His story centers around redeeming himself for a life wasted and the Disco Elysium-esque way in which he couldn’t care less about anyone or anything around him was an ideal backdrop for my heartless plotting. Figuring out a strategy to make the right friends and mitigate (i.e. murder) my enemies continues to bring me no end of joy.Even after completing all three campaigns, the tongue-in-cheek fantasy world of con artists and thugs, goofy personalities, and hilarious dialogue were all just more reasons to try “just one more run” – even when I got my teeth knocked in at higher difficulties. There was always something pushing me to complete the run or at least get to the next major plot development.The general outline of each campaign follows the same storyline every time, but the exact missions you’re sent on, the characters involved, and the random encounters you stumble upon are procedurally generated so that no two runs are quite the same. With the exception of Sal’s campaign, which is a pretty bland revenge quest with few surprises, the stories aren’t something you’ll want to skip; even on repeat playthroughs I’ve found that small details change enough to keep it interesting, and it’s all based on the missions generated and the decisions you made.Adding to the already substantial amount of charm is Griftlands’ hand-drawn Saturday Morning Cartoon style and bizarre-looking anthropomorphic animals and humans who live in its world. Voice acting is done through a Sims-style gibberish language, meaning you’ll be reading a lot of subtitles (which are enhanced by the tone from the voices), but the soundtrack during combat is every bit as catchy as you’d hope from a game you’re expected to spend a lot of time playing through again and again.What makes Griftlands’ style of adventure especially interesting is that victory is not all about stabbing people in the front. Confrontation comes in two delicious flavors: social encounters, called Negotiations, and turn-based Battles, both of which require you to curate and upgrade their own specific deck of cards. Each mode has in common card-based mechanics and knocking down an opposing health bar before yours is emptied, but that’s more or less where the resemblance ends. The dramatic change of pace from encounter to encounter gives Griftlands a different feel than most of its peers.Battles tend to be fast, action-packed, and very similar to Slay the Spire (and equally challenging and replayable), where you and any allies or pets you might have knock the snot out of all manner of beasts, robots, or fellow grifters who cross you. Because combat can be brutally challenging on higher difficulties, creating the perfect mixture of defensive cards, offensive cards, status effects, and items is essential for survival. In one playthrough with Sal I stacked up cards that cause bleed damage to drain my opponent’s health, while in another I used Smith’s bizarre ability to regenerate health by getting hammered and hurting himself to create an unstoppable rampaging drunken ogre. And, as is typical of this type of game, I couldn’t replay those the same way even if I wanted to; thanks to the way adventures are procedurally generated and loot is randomized for each playthrough, you have to learn to roll with the punches and find the best strategy by literally using the cards you’re dealt, which is a blast.Negotiations, on the other hand, are slow, strategic, and complex contests of wits where you use persuasion and coercion cards to whittle down the enemy’s core argument in an almost incomprehensible flurry of status effects. Arguably there’s even more strategy to these encounters than to Battles because of all the different status effects and modifiers that require you to continually re-evaluate your plans – which can be fun or annoying depending on the circumstances. Also, there are multiple approaches for getting your opponent to see things your way. You can focus on “domination” cards, which use threats, insults, and coercion; or you can try “influence” cards, which use swagger, persuasion, and tact.As you debate your opponent you’ll deal and receive dozens of buffs, debuffs that can be a bit of a headache. In one particularly irritating encounter, the enemy relentlessly spams your deck with cards that cost money to use or deal damage to you unless you pay, and even adds a dollar cost to playing your own cards. Watching your hard-earned cash fly away while a smug cockroach smiles on-screen can be infuriating – but beating them at their own game is almost always worth the effort.Sometimes the amount of things to consider and juggle in Negotiations can get tiresome, which makes exerting brute force through Battles seem like an ideal alternative. That can create a problem, though, because attacking everything in sight just to avoid talking through your problems tends to make you a lot of enemies, and making lots of enemies usually leads to death. And I mean the bad kind, too. As in, your own death. That said, once I took the time to learn all of the different elements at play in a Negotiation and develop a strategy that let me utterly dominate someone without ever drawing a weapon was an incredibly rewarding loop.There’s also quite a bit of randomness to deal with that’s mostly outside of your control. As you work your way through the verbal or physical blows of Griftlands, you’ll be forced to make lots of decisions with unknown consequences: side with one faction over another, make judgement calls during random encounters, and choose to draft and upgrade cards and character perks that may have a massive impact on your Battle and Negotiation decks.But these outcomes can be influenced by the decisions you’ve made around who to become friends with and who to alienate. For example, if you get into a Negotiation against someone you’ve taken the time to build a positive relationship with, the going will be much easier since they like you. Or even if someone who likes you is simply in the room when you get into trouble with someone else, they’ll come to your defense and grant you bonuses to the encounter. Likewise, earning the ire of people around you will saddle you with devastating debuffs and make the going much more difficult. Decisions you make, big and small, tend to have a ripple effect throughout any given run that can come back to bite you or save you down the road. In a world where backstabbing and ruthlessness are a core part of gameplay, things get sticky very fast and the stakes are incredibly high in the best possible way.Although each campaign is relatively short and can all be beaten in a few hours if you’re good or lucky (and I was neither), the sheer replayability of Griftlands is staggering. There are tons of unlockables, modifiers, increased difficulties, and alternate game modes. Like most deck-building games you’ll unlock prestige difficulties with each new tier you’ve conquered and gain access to new cards that are added to the available pool in the next run. You’ll also get to buy perks that give you slight advantages in the next playthrough, so even if you’re struggling to complete a campaign you’re making progress with each failure – a nifty feature if you find yourself staring at the “game over” screen more often than you’d like to admit (like I may have).Once you’ve had your fill of the story, an unlockable Brawl mode will let you cut to the chase and skip all the dialogue and decisions to give you back-to-back Battle and Negotiation encounters that simulate what you might find in a given run. This is helpful if you’re like me and sometimes just want a little deck-building combat without all those pesky concerns like nuance or being a moral person. There’s also daily challenges and a boss rush mode that puts you through the paces with the most difficult encounters that Griftlands offers.
Game Builder Garage Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/game-builder-garage-review|In the plot of the 1984 movie The Last Starfighter, a teenager is recruited to fight an interstellar battle after unknowingly proving himself worthy by means of a high score on an otherwise unassuming arcade cabinet. With the Mario Maker series, and now Game Builder Garage, I feel like Nintendo is doing something similar, but for future game designers. Game Builder Garage gives us a powerful collection of tools to create our very own games, but based on my output so far I doubt Shigeru Miyamoto will appear at my doorstep to invite me to join the team anytime soon. Even so, it’s impressive that by the end of Game Builder Garage's seven interactive lessons I already had ideas for half a dozen games and the knowledge of how to build them.Going in I was expecting Game Builder Garage to be fairly limited in the types of games you create, in the same way Super Mario Maker is powerful but limits you to creating… Super Mario levels. However, after completing all the lessons, which range from a simple single-screen "tag" game to more complex, fully 3D games, I see now there's almost no limit to the type of game you can create. Yes, you're stuck with the objects and graphics Game Builder Garage gives you, but how you build them and interact with them is incredible in its scope. Just as people constantly come up with new and novel ways to make Super Mario Maker levels, I fully expect to see some truly astonishing games being created with Game Builder Garage and its much more robust tools and feature set.Its programming system offers a visual representation of all sorts of programming concepts: comparisons, subroutines, and conditional statements, all of which are presented through little creatures known as Nodons. And while it’s fairly technical, Game Builder Garage just oozes charm from its smart, fun writing and a finely honed edge that only Nintendo could provide. The engine is not without its limitations, naturally, but for the uninitiated, it's a great place to get started building real games. When your games are finished, you can share them with friends, although I haven't been able to test this functionality. (No, not because I don’t have friends! It’s just not out yet.)Learning to program can be a daunting task, but Game Builder Garage's lessons are great at walking you through the steps required to build seven different types of games. Each lesson grows increasingly complex, but at no time during any of the lessons did I ever feel lost or frustrated. Your host, Bob, walks you through the steps for each part, introducing you to the Nodons responsible for each bit of logic or subroutine. There are Object Nodons for simple things like boxes, cylinders, and spheres. There are also Nodons for operations like arithmetic and counting, as well as the Boolean operators AND and NOT. There's no OR operator, but its existence is implied through the connections of Nodons. For example, you connect two different inputs to your AND Nodon (say, a constant like the integer 1 and a constant 0 to the same AND Nodon creates a de facto OR).It reminds me of old computer magazines, which often contained long programs in BASIC. You'd spend a few hours inputting the code into whatever crappy home computer you had at the time, and if you managed to enter a thousand lines of BASIC so you could make your screen turn a bunch of different colors you’d also absorb some programming concepts without you even realizing it. Of course, it's important to point out that Game Builder Garage is not going to directly teach you how to code anything outside of it. Instead, it teaches you how to build a game using a custom game engine. That said, while you're arranging your Nodons and their flows, you're learning how games work under the hood, and that understanding can translate to game design beyond Game Builder Garage's interface.Here's a quick example of how the Nodons work: You place a Person object Nodon on your edit screen. A quick glance at your game in action and yup: there's a person. But that person is just standing there, looking charming, unable to do anything beyond its simple standing animation loop. So you go back to the edit screen and call up Input Nodons. Drop the L-Stick onto your screen and drag its left/right connection to the horizontal connector on the Person object. Check back on your game screen and now you can control your Person object's movement. No muss, no fuss – and it only gets more complex and interesting from there.The concepts don't quite translate 1:1 to actual coding, but doesn't mean Game Builder Garage doesn't have a robust set of tools. Quite the contrary: you can build a simple platformer or a complex, 3D maze complete with moving platforms, complex randomization, and giant aliens that shoot apples at you. It just means you won't be pulling up Sublime Text or Notepad++ and debugging line after line of code. To be honest, I kind of wish there were a way to view the code involved with game creation, even if it's in some special Game Builder Garage programming language rather than a common game development language like C# or C++. It would help connect the visual workflow of the game engine with the concepts of writing actual code. I understand it would be messy, but for amateur coders like myself, seeing the code would be a great tool in helping me improve and understand some of the more complex logic involved.The lack of a requirement to learn the syntax and peculiarities of a coding language works in Game Builder Garage's favor. It makes creating games much more accessible, but it's still no walk in the park. If you're expecting Super Mario Maker levels of what-you-see-is-what-you-get, you're going to be disappointed. The Nodons are great at giving you a visual representation of the game you’re building and the pieces and parts that make it work, but its edit screen is largely an abstraction. It took me a little while to force my brain to think of how my games' various components will appear in the play screen rather than the edit screen. The lessons help out enormously in that regard.After completing a lesson, which can run anywhere from 20 minutes to 80 or more minutes, Game Builder Garage requires you to finish a series of puzzles before you can unlock the next lesson. It's basically a quiz of the concepts you just learned, and there are five different puzzles to solve that helped to cement them into my mind before they could be pushed out by something new. There are clues embedded in each puzzle, mostly hints about where to connect Nodons and whether or not you need to edit their properties. Any property not associated with the correct answer is greyed out, so you can't get hopelessly lost chasing down a wrong answer.My problem with the puzzles is that many of them are solvable at a glance, while others… not so much. I like a challenge, but 10% of the puzzles required some manner of constant or numerical range that came down to educated guesses. With the other 90%, any time I was stuck it was something obvious I overlooked. Anyone who's ever spent an hour debugging actual busted code, only to find out you forgot to close a parenthesis knows the weird mix of relief and embarrassment when you finally figure it out.Its entire presentation, from its adorable Nodons to your tutors Bob and Alice, is just so fun and brimming with personality. The writing is also great, something I never thought I'd say about a piece of educational software, with distinct identities given to each "character." I found game creation to be a challenging, but rewarding experience, and this is exactly the sort of software a parent raising a hopeful game designer should try. It's probably a little too complicated for a pre-teen, but with some parental guidance it's a phenomenal way to teach kids the basics of game design.My one beef with building came when I messed something up, to a large degree. There's no bulk-select, so to delete two dozen Nodons meant having to select them individually rather than all at once. A way to select multiple Nodons would help enormously in copy-paste and mass-deletions. I guess the lesson here is "don't mess up."As for me, a grown man with a little Perl, Python, C++ and Excel formula knowledge, I was charmed the entire time, and now I want to look into more robust game development engines. At the very least I can finish that RPG Maker game I started in 2015. For now, I'm content with my Game Builder Garage creation Super Falling Man Fantasy, which I'll be sharing with the world once I finish update version 2.0.
Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Storm Ground Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/warhammer-age-of-sigmar-storm-ground-review|Warhammer Age of Sigmar: Storm Ground is the definition of a game that needed more time in development. Saying that it “needs polish,” though, feels like an understatement: this turn-based tactics game is just lacking or buggy in so many areas that the places where it does stand out are overwhelmed by the lack of quality elsewhere. What promising fundamentals its simple but well-designed combat gives way to a weakly organized roguelite campaign, a frustrating grind for new stuff, bizarre inconsistencies, and a lack of diversity and balance among its units.The world of Age of Sigmar is well-represented here: it's a Planar Fantasy world with all kinds of outrageous, over-the-top concepts and a slurry of compound words like Stormcast and Maggotkin and Bladegheist and Realmgate and Stormvault. It takes itself entirely too seriously and is perhaps best if you can laugh at it – something Storm Ground generally understands, with pop-culture homages and puns littered among the otherwise straight-faced dialogue. It also looks good, a few shoddy textures aside, with fantastical feature design in the small, tightly controlled hex-based battle arenas. It's even got the single thing all great Warhammer games need: An army painter.Storm Ground's strongest aspect is its basic game rules. They're simple mechanics that allow for a lot of interesting things to happen yet remain fair and predictable. Units have health, movement, armor, and damage statistics. You rarely have more than five to 10 units to command, so things never become unwieldy. Units are vulnerable to quick death, but combat is not very random: An attack always hits and deals the same amount of damage, minus the target's armor value. If the armor value is higher than the attack's damage, then the attack has a percentage chance to do no damage or a single point of damage based on how much higher the armor is.Each round you spend power to summon units, and each round your power meter refills and grows a bit longer. As the battle goes on you can summon your most expensive and powerful units, leading to a natural escalation. Unspent power becomes Aether, the currency spent to activate units' special abilities, which presents an interesting choice during every turn: sometimes you'll summon new units, but sometimes you won't as you'd rather save the power to allow your current troops to use their special powers next round.Layered on top of this simple rule set are slightly more complex ideas, most of which are delivered in the form of each unit's unique abilities. Basic special attacks pierce armor or hit an area. Some have forced movement attacks that push or pull enemies around, like Blightkings, who have a giant tongue in their stomach. Status effects that change stats, melt armor, deal ongoing damage, shock, or penalize movement abound. None of this is particularly well-balanced, mind you, and you might find multiplayer frustratingly unfair as a result, but you can build some combos that are fun to execute.You can build entire strategies around things like making the choice to have a strong hero with expensive powers who holds out until powerful allies arrive, or a swarm of low-level troops that nibble away at enemies. I really liked the combos present in the Maggotkin faction, which allowed me to use cheap defensive swarms to wear down enemies before my heavy-hitting back line mopped them up.It’s these special abilities that mess things up for Storm Ground in that their rules are weirdly inconsistent. Pushing enemies into terrain has a negative effect, sometimes as severe as instant death, but pushing enemies into trap abilities that you yourself laid doesn't trigger the trap. Additionally, the rules incentivize playing strangely. One mission type requires you to take and hold a position, but new waves of enemies will spawn endlessly when the previous wave is wiped out. Thus the logical approach is to take the position, kill every enemy but the lowest-damage one, and just take hits from it until you win.Each of the factions does feel distinct and interesting from the other, though balance is all over the place. Some units feel useless while others are vital to their team's composition. The Stormcast Eternals are based around their commander, only able to summon reinforcements each round to their spawn area or their commander's vicinity. In return, their individual strength is very high, with consistently well-armored units able to bully the opponent's line. They're also the most fleshed out faction, with the most unit variety and the largest number of interesting powers and combos to offer.The Nighthaunts are the opposite: they’re a swarming faction that can use wisps of spirit matter to summon almost anywhere on the battlefield, but they pay for that with individually weak troops. They're cool and interesting, but it takes a lot of playtime to grind out the new units that really empower their combos.The Maggotkin are something else entirely, a faction focused on spreading corrupted terrain on the battlefield and able to summon their units on it as well as proliferate free Nurgling units by consuming their own corruption. Managed well, they can form a powerful defensive wedge that eats up enemies who defy them as they creep toward victory. Unfortunately, they also feel like half a faction, with a small unit roster compared to the other two and a lack of interesting customization in items, weapons, and new powers. (The AI also has absolutely no idea how to play them.)If most of this sounds like a lot of clever and fun design, well, it is. It's pretty and the basics are good. Everything else, though, is not good.In the campaign, Storm Ground's action itself is slow. Slow to go through dialogue, with conversations between characters lasting a minute despite only having 30 seconds of conversation. Slow to resolve, with combat animations having no fast-play option, so you’re forced to watch every movement, including frequently hanging for 10 seconds before and after an order is given—both on your turn and the AI's turn. This is the least of the bugs that plague Storm Ground.I encountered no fewer than seven activated unit abilities that crashed to desktop every time I tried to use them. Others simply didn't work. Effect animations and unit models frequently stuck around even when the ability that triggered them was over, or the unit was dead.It's also just small stuff that lets Storm Ground down. There's clearly an elaborate system of keywords behind the rules, but there's no way to reference what those keywords are or mean—it's in desperate need of a rulebook and tooltips and just doesn't have them.Finally, though the roguelite campaign mode is nice in theory, it takes hours of grinding to unlock new powers, units, and abilities. And it is grinding – the missions are very repetitive and an overall lack of unit variety in the small faction roster means one goes much like another. Once unlocked, you can only retain a handful of them from campaign to campaign, relying on random loot to give you interesting units mid-play. Adding insult to injury, you can't use unlocked stuff from campaigns in the multiplayer or even the single-player skirmish vs AI – which you have to be online to use. It's a separate grind entirely to get new stuff for use in multiplayer.It took me 30 hours to win the campaigns on all three difficulties, and I'll admit that I came up with some real cheesy strategies to do it. I'd conservatively estimate that it would take 100 or more hours of gameplay to unlock everything in either mode. That's not because there's so much interesting stuff to unlock, that's because Age of Sigmar: Storm Ground is paced like a free-to-play mobile game. You get some cool stuff at first, but when you hit the grind wall you hit it hard.
Wonder Boy: Asha in Monster World Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/wonder-boy-asha-in-monster-world-review|There was a time not too long ago where some games never left Japan. It didn’t matter if they were the next entry in a beloved series or some genre-twisting mashup. Monster World IV was one such game on the Sega Mega Drive, the last in a well-known series that for whatever reason never made it to the American Genesis like its predecessors did. Remade and released now as Wonder Boy: Asha in Monster World, this formerly 16-bit classic retains everything that fans loved about the series back in 1994. Unfortunately, it is no longer 1994, and this dedication to old-school platforming fundamentals makes Asha’s adventure a museum piece rather than a triumphant resurgence.Like the retro original, Asha in Monster World carries on mechanically from previous Monster World games but presents a brand-new journey with only a few ties to the ongoing story. Asha was born with a gift to sense spirits, and their cries for help serve as a call to adventure. Over the course of around five hours, Asha saves a quartet of helpful sprites that series fans may remember from Wonder Boy in Monster World and foils the shadowy plot to contain them. It’s a simple tale that works for a colorful platformer like this, providing good motivation without getting in the way of the action.Improving a classic like this seems like a slam dunk, and general nostalgia for the 1990s has produced a bunch of remasters and remakes that breathe new life into old favorites. In the case of Wonder Boy: Asha in Monster World, a new coat of paint can’t hide simplistic gameplay and outdated mechanics.Asha in Monster World is a straightforward action game featuring a hero whose moveset consists of a single sword swing, a rechargeable “magic hit” for extra damage, a shield for defense, and aerial attacks that go up and down. The only other interactions in each level come from Asha’s floating puffball of a pet, a fantastical creature known as a Pepelogoo that Asha can throw to retrieve items located off-screen, push buttons, or climb up plumes of lava. Grabbing onto its feet is also the only way to perform a double jump. It’s a wide variety of moves when compared to other Genesis action games, but it’s crushingly limited compared to most similar games we see nowadays.Take the double jump in particular: Monster World’s four levels take full advantage of this extra height once Asha learns the move, laying out paths that need you to make several in a row to proceed. In most games, this means simply hitting the jump button twice, but in Asha’s adventure, there’s an extra button press and a time buffer whenever she needs the Pepelogoo to give her some added distance. The creature also evolves over time and gets too heavy for Asha, forcing her to stand still as she holds onto her pet instead of running around freely.To modern eyes, all this fiddling with Pepelogoo to accomplish jumps that almost any other platforming hero could easily clear feels less like interesting design and more like a simple waste of time, and it’s not the only instance of this. The levels have plenty of examples of backtracking for simplistic puzzles, rote memorization, and times where a needed key spawns directly next to a locked door. These are the type of gameplay elements that games left behind for a reason, and they’re the biggest cause of why Wonder Boy: Asha in Monster World doesn’t stand up to modern scrutiny.The physical edition of Wonder Boy: Asha in Monster World comes with an English edition of the 1994 game. It’s a great bonus, and it’s a shame that not everyone has access to it. It’s only when playing each version side by side can you see how faithful the developers are to the original. It’s a shot-for-shot remake in the vein of Zack Snyder’s Watchmen, only with a layer of cartoony cel-shading instead of pixels.I had just as much fun during my six- or seven-hour playthrough of Wonder Boy: The Dragon’s Trap as I have with many of its contemporary counterparts. While its antiquated roots cause some minor frustration with unreliable hitboxes and unnecessary grinding, the foundational combat and exploration is still engaging and fun after 30 years. From long-time Wonder Boy fans to platformer enthusiasts who’ve never heard of it until now, you’ll likely be able to find whimsical fun and a neat bit of genre history in this charming adventure. - Jon Ryan, April 17, 2017Different people will prefer different styles, but the original presentation put me more in the right mindset for what was to come. The new graphical treatment might set expectations for a game that’s evolved from its original era, and that makes simple things like the lack of mid-level checkpoints and limited healing items all the more frustrating.If you do happen to prefer the newer look of the Wonder Boy: The Dragon's Trap remake and the spiritual sequel Monster Boy and the Cursed Kingdom, it’s worth noting that Wonder Boy: Asha in Monster World’s modern graphics are a significant downgrade from both of those games. The bright colors and simple designs all mirror the classic well, but there’s no style to the translation. The simplicity makes Asha’s world look like a cheap Wonder Boy knockoff rather than a long-lost entry in the series.Thankfully, it’s not all doom and gloom for the new version, which does include a few colorful cutscenes that expand on important moments in the story in fun ways. NPC dialogue scrolls at a much more reasonable pace when compared to the original, which makes the forward-thinking meta humor in the town square all the more enjoyable. The soundtrack is also improved with many renditions of a main theme, although it can get repetitive on some of the longer levels.
Knockout City Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/knockout-city-review|Knockout City isn’t the dodgeball from your childhood. It’s an intense team-based multiplayer take on the grade school sport that combines simple, easy to pick up controls, with deceptively complex tactics and strategies that may be surprising coming from a game featuring this type of Saturday morning cartoon aesthetic. Its crisp, satisfying gameplay and multiplayer duels deliver all of the highs of gym class sports without the smelly uniforms or the anxiety of being picked last.I’ve found the art style to be an acquired taste. The Bratz doll look of the characters was off-putting at first, but taken with the colorful cityscapes, the genre-defying energy of the soundtrack, and eclectic customization options, Knockout City has a charm that’s hard to deny. I love the distinctive sound each of the different balls makes when they collide with targets, particularly that hollow and familiar “bonk” of the standard red rubber variety.The base rules of this sport are simple: your team of three or four has to eliminate the opposing team by clobbering them with balls that spawn across the maps. Players must be hit twice to be knocked out, and the first team to 10 knockouts wins.When a ball is in your hand, you're almost like a baseball pitcher in that there’s a shot selection aspect to every throw you make as you attempt to break your opponent’s defense, which is a simple yet powerful catch. The basic throw can be charged to a faster variation, you can throw a slow lob that can change the opponent’s timing just enough to throw them off, or you can throw wide curve balls to reach around obstacles and exploit enemy blind spots. Winning a duel is much more about that choice than it is about precision – since all aim is auto-targeted, having great on-the-run aim like in a traditional third-person shooter is a non-factor. Instead, every interaction is a matter of having better reflexes and more devious tactics in focused, tennis-like volley exchanges.Knockout City is only sort of free-to-play – if you want to play past street level 25, you’ll have to drop $20 – so it may be disconcerting to see that it also has microtransactions. But they're the largely inoffensive kind: everything that can be bought with the in-game currency, holobux, can also be earned by raising your “street level.” You gain experience points by simply playing matches, but you’ll gain them in far greater quantities by completing contracts, which have you doing things like taunting the enemy right before you eliminate them. If you’re patient and persistent, you can get every cosmetic Knockout City has to offer without paying more than the sticker price.Among the strangest and most effective moves is ignoring balls completely, and instead turning yourself into one for your teammates to throw. When you “ball up” you can be tossed to eliminate opponents like normal, or supercharged to become a sort of living, guided mortar shell. These UItimate Throws cause a devastating explosion on impact, knocking out anyone caught in the blast instantly. Using players as balls is risky, though. You can be caught like any other ball and thrown back against your team, or worse, thrown off the stage for an instant knockout. And of course, should you miss with a big Ultimate Throw, you are super exposed to counter attack.Some of the more advanced techniques, like passes that charge the ball to max speed faster or dashes that double as powerful tackles that deflect throws and disarm opponents, provide great depth that high-skill players are already starting to make use of. I’m just scratching the surface of that after a few dozen games, never going too long without using a trick shot or an Ultimate Throw to gain an advantage in a close game. Not only do all of these little maneuvers feel easy and accessible, but they all feel necessary for true dodgebrawl mastery.Most of the stages do a great job at throwing unique environmental wrinkles into the standard play. I quickly found a favorite stage in Galaxy Burger, which features a circular spinning restaurant that begs you to make wild trick throws inside it. The Roundabout adds cars to the mix, forcing you to stay on the move at all times or get bounced around by rush hour traffic. Of course, not every gimmick becomes something worth playing around, like the transporting tubes in Back Alley Brawl, but they don’t detract from the action either.The special balls that spawn during games have a far more dramatic impact on gameflow from match to match. Sniper balls turn games into more long-range affairs, as players can hang back and launch high speed throws from afar. Multi-balls give you three throws instead of one, turning players into rapid-fire ballers for a limited time. I love that these options are so clearly worth playing around that they can change the pace of a game by their mere presence. For instance, when I hear the ticking of a Bomb Ball, I’m far less likely to stick close to teammates just in case they become ground zero for a sudden explosion.Knockout City’s matchmaking is a bit wonky, though. Especially in unranked Street Play, where I’ve regularly joined games mid match only to find that my whole team has already gone idle, leaving me alone to get walloped by the enemy. Pickup games are at the mercy of the random people you’re playing with, which may not give you a fair shot.Should you need a break from the standard gameplay, Knockout City offers rotating game modes that get shuffled every week that put interesting spins on the rules. One added a sort of gold rush system where every hit causes enemies to drop diamonds that you collect to score instead of simply chasing knockouts. My favorite mode removed all the balls completely, forcing players to throw their teammates at each other instead. Ultimately, these modes are fun distractions but never more alluring than the standard three-versus-three matches for very long.
New Pokémon Snap Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/new-pokemon-snap-review|It's a good thing no one had a camera on me during my first playthrough of New Pokémon Snap, because I probably looked and sounded like a total dingus. Without fail, each time I played a new course a Pokémon would appear out of nowhere, or do something cute, or react to something I did in a surprising way, and I (this is not an exaggeration) would sit up on the couch, point at the screen, and go "Aaah!" in delight.I love the way The Pokémon Company has, in recent years, begun letting more companies outside Game Freak (think Niantic with Pokémon Go, or Legendary Pictures with Detective Pikachu) make media that shows off Pokémon not as collectibles or as static RPG party members but as lovable, intelligent creatures. After successfully digging into their combat prowess in Pokken Tournament, Bandai Namco has been handed the far more peaceful reigns of an on-rails nature photography game and charged with portraying Pokémon as wild creatures in living ecosystems to be observed, befriended, and only "captured" via camera. Given the timbre of my happy yells every time a Wooper said "Woooh!" at me, if my neighbors had known what I was doing they'd probably agree that New Pokémon Snap is a delightful success on this front.Despite its flaws, I was a big fan of the original Pokémon Snap on Nintendo 64 back in 1999. The classic on-rails photography game had a very fun premise, sending you on a nature safari to try and get the best photos possible of Pokémon living and interacting in their natural habitats. Though the idea was sound and many of Pokémon Snap's best moments are still memorable to this day (the Jigglypuff concert! Charizard popping out of the lava pool! Surfing Pikachu!), it was painfully short, with only just over 60 Pokémon available across seven courses that were precisely the same every single time. Even with the meat of trying to solve a few puzzles to line up some rarer shots, 1999's Pokémon Snap inevitably left me wishing for so much more.New Pokémon Snap also has far more story to drive it along, with a Pokémon professor named Mirror and his crew of research assistants trying to solve yet another Pokémon mystery, though overall it’s a fairly forgettable progression tool. You'll visit a sparkling beach, a dense jungle, a desert, underwater caverns, and several more locations, all of which look better than I've seen any Pokémon game look yet – beauty which comes at the cost of some occasional frustrating framerate dips when it pushes the Switch beyond its comfort zone. These are most noticeable in one stage in particular, when an absolutely massive Wailord slowly breaches the ocean surface and briefly slows everything to a crawl.Most of the Pokémon manage to look very good without melting your Switch in your hands though, and for the most part will react in interesting ways to just about anything you (literally or figuratively) throw at them, be it fruit, glowing Illumina Orbs, or a catchy tune. It's easy to view being on-rails as a limitation, but in New Pokémon Snap it's apparent that keeping your own interactions with the world a bit more limited than in something like a typical Pokémon RPG has freed Bandai Namco up to make the many different things the Pokémon themselves do far more varied, detailed, and enjoyable to watch.New Pokémon Snap gracefully avoids Pokémon Snap's problem of repeating the exact same courses ad infinitum in several ways. Most courses get both day and night versions, with each variation including more than enough distinct Pokémon and interactions to merit the duplication. Many courses also hide branching pathways, some obvious and some hidden, that let you get better views on certain monsters or discover new ones entirely.But after repeated visits to the park and numerous well-scored photos, trust is earned and your Research Level increases. Eventually, rather than scurry off any time you appear, Grookey and Pichu will greet you the moment they see you, waiting around and cheering at you long enough for you to snap adorable photos of the pair at a more leisurely pace. They'll chase you playfully through the level, introduce you to their buddy Scorbunny, and pose repeatedly so you can get a really good shot for your Photodex.This gradual storytelling that occurred as I visited courses over and over again is the greatest unexpected joy of New Pokémon Snap. It allows Bandai Namco to tell little visual stories and pepper them throughout each level, such as a colony of Bidoof slowly building a dam I can eventually cross in my little photo-taking pod, or solving the mystery of what Pokémon keeps leaving charred fruit sitting around. Good as all this was, by the end of New Pokémon Snap – which I reached after about 15 hours – I greedily wanted there to be even more to these observable plotlines and was disappointed when grinding to finish Research Level 3 didn't magically throw me into a course overflowing with exciting new Pokémon and interactions. All I got was an achievement.It's in a handful of photo-taking-adjacent systems like these that New Pokémon Snap trips over itself a bit. One example is in its tutorials, which serve to over-explain simple mechanics and progression early on, while a notable segment later fails to give an essential detail about what the player ought to be doing next. Another irritating example is the "star" rating included in photo scoring, which both serves to indicate how rare the moment you snapped a photo of actually was, while also providing four slots per Pokémon to fill in the PhotoDex. But there's sometimes no apparent rhyme or reason to which photos get “unique” four-star ratings and which don't.Somewhat frequently, I would discover what I believed to be an amazing, exciting interaction in a level and managed to get a photo I was proud of, only to find that jerk Professor Mirror didn't recognize what I'd snapped as anything different than the Pokémon's everyday, default activity. Meanwhile, I have multiple Pokémon PhotoDex pages filled with photos that, to my eye, are almost indistinguishable, yet they all have different star ratings. It's ultimately not a massive issue, as I can still save any cool shots I get to my album and show off my discoveries, but Mirror's lack of recognition and unclear standards often deflated my excitement a bit at finding something I thought was rare.The Re-Snap feature in particular is a great addition that lets you go back and adjust a shot in the moment, in case you were just a little bit off or out of focus. It's not a perfect do-over button (which is probably for the best), but rather a way to make small adjustments to the second a photo was taken so you're not left frustrated that something wasn't just so. Also, while the online features were only just enabled yesterday, their mere existence is an essential function and I'm already enjoying some of the cool snaps my fellow reviewers have shared while decking out my own profile with my favorites.Fun as these are, the most memorable bits of New Pokémon Snap lie squarely in its photo-taking core. This is especially true of the best moments with Pokémon who do not often get the spotlight in other games, like the Bouffalant I saw wearing a flower crown, or the horrifying time Pinsir's teeth stuck out of its mouth, or when I learned exactly how a Stunfisk eats a piece of fruit. Even right now as I'm writing this, I'm puzzling in my head over how to interact with a particular area in one of the later stages that surely, surely must hide some very cool moment, if I could only tease out the right combination of fruit and orbs and music and Pokémon and timing to find it. Having told myself when I started that I wouldn't try too hard to fill my entire PhotoDex if it didn't happen organically, New Pokémon Snap has me feeling a bit like a kid again – eager to catch 'em all.
Pac-Man 99 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/pac-man-99-review|The wafers also serve a valuable new function, in that winding your way through the maze grants you a permanent speed bonus once you've eaten every wafer. You can stack these effects with each new level clear, which is a crucial part of survival when the match is down to its last 10 competitors. There are also two rows of small ghosts on either side of the maze, and eating them creates ghost trains, which you can then devour under the influence of a power pellet. It's not quite the same as the ghost trains of Pac-Man CE DX, but it's damn close, and it’s great to see each one sent off to a foe’s screen.I absolutely loved how Pac-Man 99 made me rethink my entire approach to this classic game several times each match. I spend the first half of each match working hard to get my speed up as high as possible, and once the red Pac-Men join the fight I abandon my quest for speed and focus on survival. When there are five red Pac-Men chasing me, my goal goes from banking speed bonuses to eating just enough wafers to get the fruit to appear so I can clear the foul red demons, avoid the slowdown from the legions of hollow Pacs, and try to grab a power pellet to send a torrent of my own annoyances to my unsuspecting foes. All this pivoting of play style happens in seconds, sometimes several times, and makes the final stretch of each match as stressful as it is exhilarating. I still haven't won a match, but I've come in second place several times and can get to the top 10 more often than not.And that's it. That's the entirety of the free version of Pac-Man 99. There are no other mazes, no other modes, and no differences from the core game at all in the free version. That's where it falters: every single match plays out essentially the same once you figure it out. I didn't consult any guides while playing, so a lot of my personal joy came from unwrapping its many subtleties, slowly working to create an (almost) winning strategy. Super Mario 35, which I reviewed at launch, was way too World 1-1 heavy, but at least you had a good chance to see a different level once you cleared it. Not so with Pac-Man 99: the maze is the same each and every time.With Pac-Man 99 being so new, I didn't have any trouble finding a match. The longest I waited for a new round to start was maybe 20 seconds, but matching with 98 other players takes only a few seconds. Frustratingly, I had several cases where I'd be waiting for a game and get kicked out for a network error. It happened fairly infrequently, but just enough for it to stick out in my mind. Thankfully I never experienced any sort of server disconnection during an actual match, so while it is annoying, it's not game-breaking.
Can’t Drive This Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/cant-drive-this-review|The tangled result of taking Tetris and Trackmania Turbo and tossing them into a tumble dryer, Can’t Drive This is a clever and compulsive co-op puzzle racer. With one player literally building a road out of random tiles as the other navigates the chaotic, impromptu track that results, Can’t Drive This is one of the most inventive driving games I’ve played in recent years, although its modest selection of modes makes it a multiplayer experience best enjoyed in short bursts rather than an all-night party classic-in-the-making.Replace Tetris’ iconic tetronimoes with assorted chunks of stunt racing track and you’re most of the way to understanding how Can’t Drive This delivers its own brand of puzzle-like track pieces. Every new slab will be something random – one might be a simple square of asphalt while the next has a devilish swinging hammer designed to hamper your progress. However, some may not be square at all – they’ll be 90-degree bends or banked corners that need to be rotated before they’re placed – and others won’t even be asphalt – they’ll be a deep mud pit to mess with your grip or a giant yellow dome to throw you off-course. The variety of tiles and obstacles is decent, although the hydraulic press is a nightmare. While it appears as if you just need to skirt around it, as it slams down it seems to send out a powerful shockwave that knocks trucks from the track without touching them. It was funny at first to watch my teammates struggle to survive it, but ultimately it became regularly irritating.Assembling the track in Can’t Drive This is ultimately like trying to piece together a slot car set on the dining table before your little sister drives your favourite car off the end of it. There’s really no time to think it through. The driver can’t simply park and wait for their partner to carefully or artfully string a track together because if the truck stops too long it’ll explode, so reacting to the pieces as they arrive and plonking them down quickly is the only way to succeed as a team.There are certainly times where it feels like you’re getting shafted with combinations of tiles that are extremely difficult for a driver to deal with – like a series of boost pads into a jump that a driver may find themselves committed to before the builder has even had time to set down a landing area – but with a couch full of players laughing at this predicament it’s generally more funny than aggravating.However, there were a lot of occasions where I or one of my teammates found ourselves stuck clipping through a guardrail or bogged in a track tile that blinked into existence a fraction too late to let us continue, but a fraction too soon to allow the truck to actually plummet from the sky. It’s an annoying purgatory to be trapped in, particularly when the truck refuses to explode and manually restarting your run from the pause menu is the only solution. This is at its most frustrating with three drivers. Fallen trucks can be resurrected if another player drives through the beacon marking the point on track they perished, but we had a couple of instances where our last surviving driver was fused halfway inside a track tile, unable to revive teammates or proceed.The monster trucks in Can’t Drive This may look toy-like in scale but they handle with a good sense of heft and inertia. The trucks have a decent feeling of mass without being cumbersome, and they’re responsive without feeling overly twitchy or sticky.There’s also a huge amount of truck customisation on offer but I haven’t really found myself drawn to it. A monster truck with a beard and a cowboy hat is objectively brilliant, I admit, but I can’t help but wonder if Can’t Drive This would’ve been better served with a few more modes or ways to play it than such an extensive range of cosmetics.As it stands, there are three different multiplayer modes: Yardage, where up to three drivers and one builder attempt to simply go the furthest distance they can before all trucks either careen off the track or explode; Game of Drones, where two drivers and two builders partner up to collect an increasing number of floating cubes randomly scattered around an initial hub zone; and Capture the Egg, where two teams – each featuring a driver and a builder – square off in a capture the flag scenario.The frantic and unforgiving Yardage feels like the core Can’t Drive This experience, but I think I actually prefer Game of Drones; tracking down all the cubes requires building in all four compass directions rather than relentlessly trying to power forwards, and there’s slightly more time to rebuild around errors – you just need to avoid the EMP mines dropped by the drone that will disable trucks and potentially send them spearing off the track or into an obstacle to become stuck and blow up.That’s it, though, and once we’d dabbled in each mode for a while sessions of Can’t Drive This would begin to lose a bit of momentum. There’s a fourth mode purely for solo players where you need to both build the road and drive it yourself as it subsequently assembles in front of you, but if this is the only way you’d be planning to play Can’t Drive This I’d recommend against picking it up. Lone Racer really loses a lot of steam after a dozen or so attempts.
Narita Boy Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/narita-boy-review|Narita Boy left me conflicted like few other games have before. Its jaw-dropping neo-retro 2D aesthetic constantly treats your eyes to beautiful ‘80s themed backdrops, wildly imaginative character designs, and wonderfully fluid animations while a truly excellent synth-wave soundtrack perfectly underscores not only the action, and the emotional moments of its story are surprisingly poignant as well. But as far as actually playing it is concerned, Narita Boy is at best serviceable, with hollow exploration filled with constant backtracking, simple puzzles, and combat that never really evolves in ways that make tougher enemies any more fun to fight. And at its worst moments… well, let’s just say that thankfully it’s only at its worst for a fraction of its six or seven-hour length, because otherwise I’d need a whole lot more aspirin.You play as a young boy who suddenly gets dragged into a digital world after its creator, a genius hardware and software developer named Lionel Pearl, gets his memories stolen by a malicious program known as HIM. The boy assumes the role of the titular hero, “Narita Boy,” and sets out on an adventure to restore Lionel’s memories, defeat HIM, and save the digital world. However, that is a huge oversimplification of Narita Boy’s hard-to-follow overarching plot, which is bogged down with technical jargon and boring exposition dumps.Fortunately though, that setup is not the main attraction of Narita Boy’s story. The real meat of it is communicated as you unlock Lionel’s memories and play through 13 really well-done flashback sequences that chronicle his life all the way from childhood to the present. Each time I unlocked one it felt like a gift I couldn’t wait to unwrap: these bite-sized story sequences are easily the highpoint of Narita Boy as a whole, as Lionel’s story is an emotional one to watch unfold, with wonderful music box-like tunes adeptly setting the tone. What’s especially neat about them is the way they help bring better understanding to the digital world that you’re playing through. They tie together the digital and physical worlds in a way that’s rather clever.As far as combat goes, Narita Boy looks more impressive than it actually feels to play. There are some really great animations, hits are impactful, and the way enemies die is super satisfying to look at – but the big problem is that, at the outset, there really isn’t much to your arsenal of moves outside of a basic three-hit sword combo, close-range shotgun blast, and powerful beam attack. That’s an alright base, but none of the abilities that you gain as you progress ever make engaging with combat any more fun.Rather than changing the way you approach a fight to keep things fresh, the techniques you unlock are more designed around giving you a way to deal with a specific new enemy type. For example, there’s a shoulder bash that’s only really used on one shielded enemy type, and an uppercut that’s primarily just used to hit the few enemies that fly. That makes them feel more like keys than actual techniques, only to be used when you see the right enemy-shaped lock. As a result, combat gets stale early on and stays that way.The one exception to this stagnancy is a dashing thrust attack that actually fits nicely into Narita Boy’s repertoire of moves as a way to hit a bunch of enemies in a row, in addition to being able to remove armor from a specific enemy. Of course, it’s one of the last techniques that you get, so I didn’t have much time to really enjoy using it in combat.And while there are an impressive number of enemy types throughout Narita Boy, they’re almost all disappointingly simple, with a single attack and a single way for you to avoid that attack. Eventually you gain the ability to use a Wildfire power up and can toggle between red, blue, and yellow auras, which makes you deal and take more damage against enemies of the same color. But while it’s great to have an extra layer to think about in combat to break the routine of it all, it fails to make fights any more fun since you pretty much just kill enemies in one hit when you’re matched with their color.None of this means that combat in Narita Boy is outright bad, and I wouldn’t even go as far as to say that it’s shallow, because the enemies do require that you learn their patterns, as simple as they are. It just never rises above that baseline level of what combat should be in an action platformer like this, leaving it somewhat amusing but relatively one-note the whole way through when compared to evolving games like Ori or Guacamelee.Platforming and exploration follow the same trail limped along by Narita Boy’s combat: they never really cross that threshold of being anything better than just “fine” on a fundamental level. The world of Narita Boy may be absolutely gorgeous to look at, with visually spectacular backdrops throughout each of its three major color-coded zones, but I eventually grew numb to them; running back and forth between them over and over again, picking up and delivering keys while trying to keep track of which ones are for which locks without any sort of map drains them of their novelty after a while.Each area of Narita Boy is capped off with a big event to transition into the next one, and usually these are among the highpoints of the whole campaign. Surfing on a floppy disc and transitioning from skidding along the water’s surface to jumping back onto solid ground is good fun, as is the power fantasy of transforming into a giant robot and utterly smashing everything in your way. But there’s one transition in Narita Boy that I need to talk about in detail, because it is the closest I’ve ever gotten to rage-quitting a game that I was assigned to review.Upon clearing the Yellow House area you have to ride on a stag in a very familiar speeder bike-esque section that you’ve probably seen a hundred times in other games – think Bit.Trip Runner’s side-scrolling obstacle dodging, just without the rhythm element. But here you’re moving extremely fast and the obstacles that you need to jump over are just a little too hard to see. Even more frustrating is that in order to avoid taking damage from certain enemies, you have to boost through them. The problem is that when you boost you move so fast, and it pushes you so far to the right side of the screen, that it becomes practically impossible to react to whatever is coming next.The result is a two-minute-long blurry obstacle course that largely comes down to memorization, much like that infamous Battletoads level pretty much everyone has hated since 1991. But while Battletoads has that hardcore appeal of being a difficult game all the way through, Narita Boy is otherwise a very easy game, and this awful level comes out of absolutely nowhere. It’s made worse by the fact that the mechanic meant for giving you health back, which is boosting through a string of enemies, often doesn’t work and has you still taking damage for seemingly no reason, even during a part that seems explicitly designed to let you heal. It’s headache-inducing, it doesn’t work as intended, and it almost completely ruined Narita Boy as a whole for me – but thankfully this short section is also the only moment like it.
Monster Hunter Rise Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/monster-hunter-rise-review|Update 1/10/22: Alongside its Steam release, we've added impressions of Monster Hunter Rise's PC version down below, as well as thoughts on the last year of free content updates.There’s nothing quite like piloting a fire-breathing T-rex like a runaway train through an overflowing volcano before using it to beat the crap out of a dragon. In a series already known for providing thrilling battles you can’t really get elsewhere, Monster Hunter Rise still manages to surprise and delight. Its scope and progression can feel flatter than that of Monster Hunter World at its launch (including a conspicuous lack of Elder Dragons), making it seem like a foundation waiting to be built upon – but after spending dozens of hours with Rise’s wonderfully enhanced mobility and faster pace, it’s going to be hard to ever go back to the way things were before.For those new to the series, Monster Hunter Rise is all about killing or capturing giant, spectacular monsters and turning them into pairs of pants (among other pieces of gear), this time with an awesome feudal Japanese theme throughout. Each hunt is essentially an epic boss fight against a specific monster or two, all of which are incredibly diverse in both visual design and behavior; a successful hunt earns you materials used to craft better equipment that will, in turn, allow you to take down harder monsters – and so on and so forth. Success relies on a healthy balance of preparation and skill, and it’s kept fresh by the variety of 14 radically different weapons types you can swap between, the strategic puzzle of breaking and severing specific parts of a monster rather than just whacking at it mindlessly, and the everlasting allure of that next piece of sweet gear.The systems that house all that depth have given Monster Hunter a reputation for being daunting to learn, but 2018’s Monster Hunter World shattered that barrier by streamlining many aspects and making the series accessible to a wider audience than ever before. (For context, World outsold the previously most popular game in the series by at least 11 million copies, so for a huge chunk of current Monster Hunter fans it’s all they’ve ever known.) That’s relevant here because Rise feels a little more like a follow-up to the most recent Switch entry, Monster Hunter Generations Ultimate, that benefits from many of World’s impressive evolutions rather than a successor to World itself – which makes some sense, given World never came to Switch and Rise is a Switch exclusive (until it comes to PC next year).That means there’s a mix of old and new ideas here, some of which are more successful than others. For example, much of the streamlining World did has been carried forward, including tweaks like load-free maps, weapon-sharpening whetstones not being consumable, and healing items being usable while walking – all of which feel vital after spending hundreds of hours with them in World. Meanwhile, other things like separate Village and Hub questlines for single- and multiplayer and the ability to tweak a weapon’s playstyle a bit return from older Monster Hunter games. This mishmash of old ideas with some compelling new ones of its own makes Rise feel like a huge mechanical step forward compared to Generations Ultimate, but more of a sidestep in the context of World and its Iceborne expansion.Story has never been the point of a Monster Hunter game (Capcom has a series literally called Monster Hunter Stories for that), so it’s no surprise that the one in Rise is as thin as tissue paper. It’s told through a scant few cutscenes where English voice acting is stutteringly dubbed to match what appear to be unaltered Japanese lip flaps in a way that does neither any favors. That doesn’t make the fights around those scenes any less exciting, but it’s important to point out that the improvements World made weren’t only mechanical. Its story wasn’t much thicker, but it did provide a nice sense of discovery and continuity that made it feel like you were actually exploring its new continent. I missed that a little in Rise, where unlocking new areas or being sent on key hunts rarely had much relation to the story or your actions in it – and again, that’s not a deal breaker by any means or even necessarily something I’m looking for from Monster Hunter, but it’s still a place Rise takes a noticeable step backward from World.But minor issues like that are far overshadowed by the massive (literal) leap forward Rise takes in the hunts themselves. Monster Hunter is about hunting some dang monsters, and here the options available, locations to fight in, and techniques to do so with are, on the whole, superb. And while the Switch’s comparably weak hardware means things don’t look quite as crisp as I got used to with World, it’s frankly remarkable how close Rise gets. That includes how well it generally runs, as well as load times that are shockingly fast both in and out of hunts. Capcom also deserves a special shoutout for making an online system that just works, letting you join the lobbies of your Switch friends with little to no hassle. That’s become a frustratingly infrequent standard of living on the Switch (I’m looking at you, Animal Crossing).I was impressed with the immediate variety of monsters Rise throws at you too, using a more straightforward variation on the older Key Quest system to let you pick from a wide variety of hunts right away, and then only requiring you to complete a set handful of your choice before you’re able to move on to the next tier. Story be damned: that flexibility is greatly appreciated. The only drawback is that the variety of monsters also feels like it peaks quicker as a result – there are plenty to fight, but it seemed like I had also seen the bulk of them by the time I finished Rise’s singleplayer Village questline, leaving the second half of its progression in the Hub a little less surprising.But one of Monster Hunter’s oldest and best tricks is that reaching High Rank – a harder tier of Hub hunts that up the difficulty and rewards – doesn’t just tack on more health and damage to each monster’s stats, it fundamentally alters their fights. You’ll see some new moves and more aggressive behavior across the whole menagerie, making the higher numbers that accompany them only part of what reignites their sense of danger. This is by no means new to Rise, but it’s one of the most important things Monster Hunter does because it helps keep fights against the same monsters fresh and exciting.And goodness gracious, what good monsters there are this time around! There are more than 30 to take down, about a third of which are brand new to Rise (though there are a handful imported from World as well, so Generations Ultimate players will have even more fresh tails to chop off). Best of all, pretty much every single new addition is an absolute banger. They’re all excellently designed, both in their looks and their combat styles, and easily account for some of my favorite hunts in Rise. That includes the ridiculous bird-monkey Bishaten throwing persimmons at you, the sumo-inspired platypus-turtle Tetranadon, and the elegant fire-crane Aknosom who has some of the coolest looking armor and weapons available.Speaking of weapons, visual variety is immediately noticeable across the board here, which feels like a direct response to a common complaint with World. Almost right off the bat designs range from incredibly badass to incredibly silly, though their looks then don’t evolve as much as you upgrade them. Similar to the monster variety, that can leave Rise feeling a touch flatter in its last half than I initially anticipated, both in visuals and power level; for example, I was a little surprised to find I basically didn’t need to switch off the simple Insect Glaive from the Ore Tree (which, hilariously, just looks like a rifle) for nearly all of High Rank.Just about every weapon in Monster Hunter Rise has been touched or tweaked in some way, big or small. And while I was playing alongside IGN’s Wikis team, who have plenty of experience across all sorts of weapons, I almost exclusively use the Insect Glaive. A lot more has changed with this weapon relative to its most recent appearance in World than it might seem on the surface, but since many folk are like me and simply stick to their main choice, I figured I’d break down a bit of it here so that those who aren’t interested can safely skip ahead.While the Glaive’s initial moveset is largely unchanged from World, the Switch Skills that let you alter certain attacks can have a fairly significant impact on your combos if you choose to use them. I was a fan of both alternative options because they swap slower big hits for rapid attacks, and that appeals to my playstyle I enjoy since the Glaive’s agility is one of my favorite things about it. Plus one of them is a draw attack that lets you spin forward in a flurry of blows and automatically throws you into the air with a dodge if you get hit while attacking, which is just so dang fun.And while the Glaive’s Silkbind moves initially struck me as uninteresting aerial maneuvers for a weapon that arguably needs them the least, the one bound to ZL+A became an absolute staple of my hunts. It’s basically an emergency dodge button with a ridiculously large invincibility window, letting me deal damage longer and still get away clean. The only shame is that the ZL+X option is less useful, acting more as a way to leap into a fight – I prefer to use Rise’s signature new Wirebug system defensively, and the Silkbind Switch Skill you unlock in High Rank can unfortunately only be swapped with the one I actually did use.But the most drastic changes the Glaive received actually have to do with the Kinsects that accompany them. Kinsect nurturing is gone, and instead you’ll simply unlock more bug varieties to buy as you progress, with a Kinsect Level assigned to each Glaive that determines their stats. Kinsect types are also split into three different categories now: Powder, which are the only type that can auto attack and leave detonatable clouds behind, as before; Speed, which charge up while on your arm before dealing extra damage on their first hit when sent out; and Assist, which attack alongside you when you have all three essences collected for improved anime flair (and damage).This is actually an incredible change, specializing each type into a particular playstyle preference where World gave you very little reason not to just pick one of the fastest options. In fact, completely rocking my world, the iconic Pseudocath ended up being one of my least favorite options in Rise. Its speed is helpful, but the Assist Kinsects can actually guarantee they collect either a red or white essence no matter where you hit, massively speeding up close-range collection and guaranteeing I always had my red attack combos available. But that’s just what I preferred, and someone else might like the dust clouds that are now exclusive to the Powder type more. In any case, the fact that there’s more of a real choice now is what’s impressive.Regardless of the weapon you wield, the most powerful new tool at your disposal in Rise is available to everyone: the Wirebug. Wirebugs are a recharging resource that let you jump through the air, scale any wall, recover from big hits, and use special Silkbind moves of your own. It’s hard to overstate how much they influence the pace both in and out of combat. Suddenly, Rise not only doesn’t have loading screens between its map zones, it barely has boundaries at all as you scale mountains and jump vast distances. And when you are in the heat of battle, Wirebugs can instead be used on special moves unique to each weapon, ranging from epic attacks to more maneuverability.But probably the move with the most impact when it comes to changing the pace of combat itself is also the most subtle: if you get knocked back by a big hit, pressing ZL+B will use a Wirebug to pop you back onto your feet with your weapon sheathed. That may not sound like a gamechanger on the surface, but the amount of downtime it cuts out during a fight is potentially huge. Taking a hit is now an opportunity instead of a setback, letting you quickly re-engage without missing a beat or immediately heal up while stepping aside (with potions now giving you half their healing right away to speed things up even further). This move is Rise in a nutshell: trim the fat, fill the dead air, and get you moving ASAP. Simply put, it absolutely rules, and I’m not sure I ever want Monster Hunter to go without Wirebugs again.You can see that philosophy clearly in other places too, such as how Rise takes Iceborne’s excellent monster riding concept a step further by giving you full control of a rideable doggo buddy that’s way faster than sprinting around on foot. But more than that, some of the pre-hunt prep, like certain food buffs and tool choices, have been simplified or moved into mid-mission collectibles. While preparation is still key, you can now dive into a mission and pick up stat buffs and useful Endemic Life to fill some of that gap while you go.The most important of these are the colorful Spiribirds dotted around every map, each color of which will increase either your health, stamina, attack, or defense up to a certain cap. I really enjoyed that these not-insignificant stat buffs were earned through exploration rather than menu management, and figuring out the optimal routes on each map to collect them before heading toward the fight was an amusing puzzle (one I could ignore against weaker monsters to save time). On the other hand, spending five to ten minutes at the start of most hunts following the same trail of birds in order to max out my stats can become a different type of tedious, and I did begin to miss simply selecting the additional buffs I wanted more directly through meals. It’s ultimately an interesting experiment that takes advantage of Rise’s enhanced movement, but one I wouldn’t miss nearly as much as the movement itself.I get a similar feeling from the newly expanded monster riding system, which is equal parts cool and insane. Dealing damage with certain attacks (or if another monster lays on the pain itself) will eventually put a monster into a rideable state, but unlike previous games where that monster is then still ravenous and unwieldy, Rise gives you complete control of it. You can pilot them like your dog, ram them into walls at will, and even use their light and heavy attacks with a combo and parry system that’s surprisingly nuanced in its timings. You have a lot of time to do all this too, letting you drive monsters all the way across the map in order to do kaiju battle with another one, dropping extra materials and doling out some serious damage.It’s an absolute blast, but the side effect is that the other monsters on a map are transformed from beasts to be feared into tools to be used. Gone are those thrilling moments where another monster shows up unexpectedly and throws a monkey wrench into your fight in hilarious fashion – maybe some people will be happy about that lack of chaos, but it makes those monsters barely different from the tiny Endemic Life waiting to be picked up, which is a little strange. There are copious ways to easily ride or lure monsters into fights, and it wasn’t uncommon for me to use three or four different monsters to beat down my actual target in the course of a 20-minute hunt. Again, that’s exciting, but it also means that Rajang I used to fear is now little more than a club to be wielded. (The notorious Deviljho and Bazelguese aren’t in Rise, but I’m honestly not sure their imposing interruptions would even work here.)This is a feeling that persists a bit in Rise’s new Rampage hunts, too. Rampages are basically a weird blend between Monster Hunter and a tower defense game, letting you setup ballistas, cannons, and more to defend gates against waves of monsters. It’s an odd but fun novelty of a thing, reminiscent of past siege fights like Kulve Taroth but with significantly more customizability and a lot less pressure. The monsters that plow toward your gate are significantly weaker than usual, and you’ll spend a decent amount of each rampage at a turret peppering them with bolts, bombs, and even machine gun fire rather than on the ground with your weapon which can be a neat change of pace.It’s a very entertaining side mode, and one that greatly benefits from a party of friends so you can share the multitasking madness of base defense – one person could man a turret while another sets up new defenses and a third shovels coal into a kiln that reduces the cooldown on powerful superweapons like the recognizable Dragonator and what is essentially an aerial nuke. I’ve certainly enjoyed completing Rampages, but they also don’t change much from run to run, really only modified by a variety of straightforward subgoals to increase your final score, like stunning a certain number of monsters. There are only four possible stronghold layouts to defend, and while the monsters attacking might change visually, a Khezu and a Basarios will basically break your gate the same way. The real return draw of them is taking on the super-strong Apex monsters that cap off some High Rank Rampages, but eventually I just wished I could fight those out in the field instead of having to do the same tower defense song and dance again before they appeared.That said, Rampages do reward you for your time fairly well, offering a smattering of crafting materials from every type of monster present and boatload of Defender Tickets. These can be used to customize your weapons with a new system called Rampage Skills, allowing you to tweak them with your choice of one of three additional bonuses. That could be between simple stuff like increasing attack, defense, or affinity, but some also offer more unique effects like increasing damage as your weapon dulls or dealing more damage to airborne enemies, among other things. Rampage Skills are also accompanied by a nifty Rampage weapon of each type, which is basically a blank slate onto which you can apply three Rampage Skills instead of one, letting you design your own custom tool of destruction.Couple that customizability with another new system called Switch Skills, which lets each weapon swap out a few specific moves for alternate ones, and Rise returns some of the previous playstyle nuance that World streamlined away. These choices generally didn’t have a clear correct answer (although I am sure min-maxers will figure out some optimal combination before long), presenting choices like swapping a strong overhead strike with a fast forward spin and emphasizing personal preference more than pure power. There seem to only be three Switch Skills per weapon as of now, one of which is a Silkbind move, but that’s at least enough to change how a weapon handles in a noticeable way.It’s a shame, then, that Rise currently lacks any sort of endgame to really push the limits of all the choice it offers. It took me just under 50 hours to see basically everything there is to see and finish the story – that’s certainly not short, and I still have a few optional quests to unlock improved meal options or Switch Skills for other weapons, but Rise ends with an unsatisfying cliffhanger and feels like it’s missing that last layer to really test you. I was disappointed to see there’s no additional challenges unlocked once you reach this point, no Tempered monsters, no replayable area like Iceborne’s Guiding Lands, and no Elder Dragons – some of Monster Hunter’s most challenging and exciting adversaries – apart from a couple that can only be fought in special encounters (which, avoiding spoilers, are at least extremely cool).Couple that with its relatively flat-feeling equipment and progression and Rise ends up looking more like an excellent foundation for Capcom to build upon rather than a deep game of its own at launch. That’s not to say there’s nothing here as is though, and the excellent support World received gives me plenty of faith that Rise will grow in one way or another. Its first free content update has even already been scheduled for the end of April – but it’s probably good it’s that soon, as I’m running out of personal goals to keep me hunting faster than I expected to.Updated January 10, 2022Monster Hunter Rise is finally being released on PC, nearly a year after its Switch debut, and its arrival includes months of post-launch updates right out of the gate. I’ve had the chance to wirebug my way across its locales once again, this time at a much higher resolution and with an uncapped framerate, and it sure felt great to do so. With the exception of the still strangely low-quality cutscenes, Rise looks fantastic here and has so far run quite well on the two PCs I’ve tried it on (both of which are quite beefy, with RTX 3080 and 2070 Super GPUs, respectively) whether I played online or solo.Additionally, having every event quest, new monster, and content update available right away does help address one of the main problems I had with Rise at launch: a general lack of stuff to do in the late game. The story, while still as flimsy as a Kinsect’s wing, is no longer left dangling on a tasteless cliffhanger, and it can now be immediately followed up with some epic Elder Dragon hunts as you bolster your Hunter Rank.That said, Rise also hasn’t received updates that were as impactful as I’d hoped for a year ago, either. The new monsters have been exciting to fight and the tie-in event quests have been amusing (including one where you race to pick up rings as Sonic Adventure 2’s iconic “Escape From the City” plays), but there also weren’t any surprising hunts to shake things up in the way something like Monster Hunter World’s Kulve Taroth siege or Witcher crossovers did. It’s pretty much just “more,” which meant the updates never sank their hooks into me for very long – but thankfully “more” is at least still a lot of fun.There are also a few gameplay things I can see with clearer eyes now that I’ve played Rise for nearly 200 hours: most notably, Rampages are, without a doubt, a huge miss. I mentioned in my initial review that they were already starting to lose their luster, and as I continued to play I eventually found I had no desire left to do them at all – especially once updates made the more menacing Apex monsters available to fight in regular locales. Similarly, the Spiribird and monster-riding mechanics that I certainly enjoyed but was a little bit split on have been almost entirely ignored by the larger community as far as I can tell, as nearly all of the random players I’ve queued up with over the last year just don’t engage with them on hunts whatsoever.That all said, Rise is still an absolute blast, and I’m very glad it has run this well for me on PC so far. I’d certainly recommend it to anyone who enjoyed Monster Hunter World on Steam, and the updates (while they didn’t build on its promising foundation as much as I’d hoped) mean PC players will get the more complete package at launch that Switch hunters had to impatiently wait for. I am already looking eagerly toward the Sunbreak expansion coming this summer, and the enhanced visuals may be all I need to convince me to catch up to my Switch save on PC after all.
Harvest Moon: One World Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/harvest-moon-one-world-review|Somewhere in Harvest Moon: One World there's a really interesting seed of an idea for a new take on farming sims, which would be much appreciated after 25 years of very similar games. And in the right hands, turning a farming simulator series into a plot-driven, exploration-focused adventure game sounds like a brilliant idea. And yet One World fails in just about every way to do anything interesting or innovative with this new idea other than layer it on top of a deeply mediocre farming sim.
Monster Jam Steel Titans 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/monster-jam-steel-titans-2-review|Monster trucks are the automotive embodiment of a slightly tipsy dad coming home after a wedding: spirits high but knocking over all the garden gnomes. They’re big, loud, and a little destructive – but lovable oafs, nonetheless. It’s hard to hate a giant, five-ton truck wearing a novelty hat.Monster Jam Steel Titans 2 quaintly leans into this kind of wackiness with a series of large, themed open worlds celebrating a silly yet earnest stable of official trucks shaped like dogs and zombies, but its anticlimactic exploration objectives and the vanilla, chore-like structure of the competitions on offer unfortunately make for a surprisingly boring drive.The lack of spark is quickly evident. After a bafflingly basic tutorial, I was suddenly and unceremoniously dumped into the first of several open-world environments, leaving me to press pause and shuffle through menus to uncover what I was actually supposed to do.Steel Titans 2 splits its action over two separate career paths, but neither of them are very interesting. There’s the arena and stadium-based championship career, which resembles traditional, real-world Monster Jam events, and then there’s the World Career mode, which is literally just a series of exactly the same arena and stadium events but with a waypoint challenge or circuit race based in the open worlds included occasionally.There’s also a smattering of things to go and find in these maps, but doing so has proven annoying and unrewarding. You can’t “discover” a secret in the wrong truck, but even in the right truck nothing I’ve found so far has been particularly interesting. Only Monster Mutt Poodle can open a specific hot pink barn to temporarily make a new jump available, for instance, but the jump only appears to exist as a means to collect a floating inverted triangle. According to the game, floating triangles unlock more trucks – but ultimately it’s just stuff on a list to tick off in a game that’s already a repetitive slog.Truck handling is passable but it definitely lacks the sense of weight and inertia found in Monster Truck Championship. The general driving is okay and the independent rear-wheel steering controlled by the right stick certainly differentiates it from most other racers. The short course, head-to-head racing feels best, where you can whip the trucks into pretty satisfying and aggressive powerslides. However, things unravel somewhat as soon as you tip over, or tricks are required. Admittedly Steel Titans 2 doesn’t position itself as a simulation, but for five-ton trucks they sure swirl about like candy wrappers caught in an updraft.An arcade approach to handling isn’t inherently bad, but it definitely makes the freestyle events simplistic affairs. Scoring a perfect 10 is a cakewalk when all you have to do is pin the throttle, point at a ramp, rip a couple of backflips, and roll around. It won’t look pretty but the points will rack up. I never needed a plan; all I ever had to do was send it high, tumble around, and accidentally accumulate a combo big enough to be unbeatable.In contrast to last year’s Monster Truck Championship, the career modes in Steel Titans 2 are woefully superficial. The arena championship is the worst offender and really lacks excitement. There’s zero sense of being an up-and-coming driver; I just mashed through a menu and moved through a laundry list of events. There’s no team management, no truck creation or customisation, and no real sense of how far through the season you are, other than a progress bar you have to quit the mode to view. The barebones presentation just shoves you from event to event until there aren’t any more of them, and then it’s over, with zero indication you’ve actually won anything.The stadium championship that follows is slightly better on account of the venues being bigger – so the race and freestyle layouts are more interesting – but it’s still largely soulless. F1, WRC, and even Monster Truck Championship made me feel like I was part of an operation. Steel Titans 2 just airdrops you into a truck for a minute or so at a time. It’s just shallow and trite compared to its peers.The other side of Steel Titans 2 is its wild and over-the-top open world maps and its “World Career”, which is themed around curated sets of Monster Jam trucks. The Monster Mutt trucks, for instance, get a massive fantasy dog park filled with giant kennels and a race track shaped like a giant bone, and the spooky trucks get a gothic, Halloween-inspired environment filled with pumpkins, graveyards, and shipwrecks. It’s a cute touch that definitely embraces the silly personas spray-painted all over these well-known Monster Jam trucks, but it does make it feel like Steel Titans 2 is trying to have one foot in the real world and the other in a methanol-huffing fever dream – particularly since the World Career mode is padded out with plenty of repeats of arena and stadium events.Steel Titans 2 is bright and saturated, but the flickering shadows are awful and stuff like the clipping, the total lack of a watersplash effect, and spelling errors in the menus makes it all feel pretty half-hearted. Truck detail is decent, but developer Rainbow Studios has made the peculiar decision to completely bury Monster Jam’s most iconic trucks as distant unlocks. This means that by the time you secure trucks like Grave Digger and Megalodon, Steel Titans 2 has long run out of things to show you. That they’re not even available in quick play feels like a snub to particularly young kids who probably just want to freely hoon around in their favourites without jumping through 75 hoops to do so.
Bravely Default 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/bravely-default-2-review|When it comes to JRPGs, I enjoy them as JRPG as possible: long, complex, and grindy. Seeing as Bravely Default 2 is about as JRPG as they come in 2021, I'm really into it. Its novel twists on traditional turn-based battle and job systems, the gorgeous watercolor art style of its many locations, and the sheer amount of game that’s crammed into such a tiny Switch cartridge is just what my old-school Final Fantasy-loving brain craves. The amount of grinding that it demands can be a tough hill to climb, but there are plenty of smart features in play that make those long repetitive stretches about as easy as they can be without losing the feeling of accomplishment.The good news is that if you’re returning to this world after playing Bravely Default and its story followup, Bravely Second: End Layer, you’re in for a familiar treat; the better news is that total newcomers won't be at a loss because the story of Bravely Default 2 is set in the same world but on a different continent, so you don’t need to dust off your 3DS to get caught up on the details. Instead, Bravely Default 2 connects to the original stories in an interesting way that might be a little surprising (though not jaw-dropping) to those invested in them.Either way, Bravely Default 2’s roughly 60-hour story is like a refrigerator magnet poetry set of Square Enix cliches: you control a team of heroes out to save the world from calamity using magic elemental crystals – the group is even called The Heroes of Light, and you’re not just fighting evil, you're fighting the ultimate evil. I'm selling it a little bit short with that summary, because there are a few surprises I really enjoyed that diverge from its otherwise well-trodden JRPG trail, particularly near the end. But if you're picking this up expecting some deep storytelling, I'm here to dash those expectations against the same rocks our main hero's ship crashes into at the start of Bravely Default 2. (You know, where he washes ashore on a land in need of a hero? With only the vaguest recollection of how he got there?) And besides, while it might be a formulaic, light and breezy tale, that’s pretty much just what I want from a classic-style JRPG – especially one with such great gameplay mechanics underneath.You’re not just fighting evil, you're fighting the ULTIMATE evil.The battle and job systems are where I found most of my joy while playing Bravely Default 2, but those don't diverge much from the tried-and-true formulas of the previous games. Remember: the odd name of the series refers to the battle system itself, which lets you either set a character to "Brave" to gain extra moves during your current turn, or "Default" to adopt a defensive stance while you build up extra turns to use with Brave later on. Knowing when to bank and when to let it all loose is crucial to your success in battles, and there is no one-size-fits all strategy right for every fight.For example, it can be a literal lifesaver when three of your four party members lay defeated on the battlefield: rather than just raise one back with a Phoenix Down and hope they survive to the next round, I could Brave the turns I needed to raise them all at once, but only if I had been smart about banking turns with Default before then. Not only does striking that balance make me rethink tried-and-true turn-based tactics, it saves some battles from becoming frustrating. As is the case in most (maybe all?) JRPGs, certain bosses have moves that would otherwise end your run – but here that’s mitigated by the ability to get multiple party members back in the fight.Bravely Default’s excellent job system also returns to add another layer of complexity to battles. Unlike a lot of RPGs, where each character is locked into a class from the outset, this job system lets you make them whatever you want, adding onto their abilities and strengths accordingly from each character's base stats. Characters gain job levels outside of normal experience points, and as you level them up you’ll unlock new abilities, including passive ones that can be assigned to that character regardless of their current job. These range from simple things like magical and physical buffs to more game-changing abilities like letting your magic attacks score critical hits as the Red Mage, or even the Monk's bare-knuckle combat ability that turns a character's fists into powerful weapons. Jobs from previous games, like White Mage, Thief, and Freelancer return, but (without spoiling anything) it’s a slight disappointment that there aren't as many jobs as in Bravely Second: End Layer, which had 30.My inevitable defeat would send me back to excitedly experiment with reorganizing my party.There’s a lot of fun to be had in mixing and matching passive abilities with ones only available to a certain job for combos that are greater than the sum of their parts. You can set one of the abilities to guard a teammate when they're low on health, for example, and then add the chance to automatically counter-attack with another passive ability. Granted, there’s a fair amount of trial and error involved; there were a few boss battles where, after a few minutes, I'd realize I'd planned terribly for the task at hand (for example, not having a dark magic job like the Pictomancer equipped against a boss with dark magic weakness). However, my inevitable defeat would send me back to excitedly experiment with reorganizing my party to exploit those weaknesses before trying it again. The auto-save system is really generous, and saved me from having to redo my progress when I walked right into a boss' lair without stopping off at the nearby save-point beforehand. Definitely appreciated."Bravely Default offers a handful of modern twists on what is otherwise a fairly traditional JRPG, albeit one that is exceptionally refined, characterful and well-made. It’s no revolution, and if random encounters and turn-based battles turn you off, you won’t find anything to change your mind here. But fans and open-minded newcomers will enjoy a substantial adventure that proves the JRPG is alive and kicking." - David Evans, posted December 5, 2013Read the full Bravely Default reviewBravely Default 2’s boss battles are particularly great as well, especially some of the more challenging ones. For the most part, you start off the first half of the campaign finding and fighting bosses who hold items that unlock different jobs. Some of them are extremely tough, too – I spent over an hour fighting one, mostly due to being a bit under-leveled and not having a good loadout equipped going into it. But even if I had gone into it at exactly the right strength, it still would have been a challenge due to the nature of the fight. It almost felt like a puzzle: the boss had several minions who all buffed each other and attacked my party. I'd make serious progress only to have it undone by a healing spell from a minion, one who was in turn protected from attack by the boss' buffs. It was pretty arduous, but the satisfaction of beating the tougher bosses always made the struggle feel worth it.The satisfaction of beating the tougher bosses always made the struggle feel worth it.The bosses aren't just relegated to the main path, either: there are "rare monsters" scattered about the world you can take on as you see fit. They're hyper-powered versions of regular monsters, and the first time I tried my hand at battling one my party was absolutely crushed. The first of these bosses is presented right near the start, but I was about 30 hours into the story (roughly halfway) before I was able to best it.Even beyond that, there are other bosses to fight in Bravely Default 2's many optional sidequests (including a late-game quest with one of the most irritating boss fights I think I've ever experienced, though the frustration it caused was the exception rather than the rule). Both the sidequest bosses and the rare monsters reward you massively with experience, but the equipment they drop isn’t nearly as exciting. As great as the job system is, it sort of unsatisfyingly takes the place of equipment rather than adding another facet of character customization. There is no ultimate sword of everlasting holy light to excitedly discover; there are powerful weapons, that's for sure, but they never feel like they're impacting the way your characters might fight like they do in other RPGs. They're just kind of there because... how else can you fight a monster?The overwhelming majority of the sidequests are slight variations on fetch quests.Another gripe I have with the sidequests is the overwhelming majority of the ones I came across were just slight variations on fetch quests: collect four hides from a certain enemy and bring them back. Find five types of flowers and bring them back. Set out into the wilderness to collect three item types by defeating specific enemies and... bring them back. They're not all like that, but the majority are. However, there are some pretty excellent rewards for some of the side quests, and some of the jobs themselves are unlocked this way, so they’re usually worth putting up with. Make sure to ask around when you're in a town.As great as the boss fights are, the dungeons leading up to them aren't nearly as notable. They're all quite pretty, but each one is essentially just a different take on a classic maze-like layout. I found myself getting turned around more than once, but not in a way that ever got frustrating or anything. It was always fairly easy to get myself on the right track, but thinking back after the fact, none of the dungeons have any unique mechanics or obstacles that could make them stand out from each other beyond one being set in a steampunk-inspired magician's laboratory and another being set in crystalline mine, for example.The overworld and many of the towns you visit are jaw-droppingly beautiful.On that note, Bravely Default 2's watercolor visual style is a double edged sword. Its overworld and many of the towns you visit are jaw-droppingly beautiful – the upgrade to the Switch has lost a little of their charm from the tiny worlds of the 3DS, and each location is stunning in HD. Salvalon, the flooded desert city you might recognize from the demo, is an Earth-toned oasis for the eyes, while the ice-encrusted locale of Rimedhal blends blues and greys to exude a gorgeous sense of wintery majesty.The character and monster design, on the other hand, is less appealing. There's a plastic sheen to everyone and everything in the cutscenes and battles that looks a little off in a way I can't quite put my finger on. I loved the similar character style of the 3DS games, but that look hasn’t translated well for the Switch’s higher resolution and larger screen. As a result, they look out of place among the otherwise gorgeous watercolor backdrops.Meanwhile, the voice acting for Bravely Default 2 is great. I have no qualms with it whatsoever, other than the quips made during battles lack variety after just a few hours. You can also swap between English and Japanese at any time you're not in battle, which is a welcome touch. I played the majority of Bravely Default 2 with Japanese voiceover and English subtitles, because I find it easier to read through the text at my own pace when I don't understand the words being spoken. Plus I'm a huge dork.If you're turned off by the thought of grinding experience in a JRPG, then Bravely Default 2 might be a hard sell for you – but for me, a fan of notoriously grindy classics like Final Fantasy 6 and the Dragon Quest DS ports, there was an almost relaxing delight to leveling up my party with battle after battle. (Many years ago I had basically written off my lifelong love affair with JRPGs because I’d lost patience for the grind, but when I started playing JRPGs on handhelds, oh baby did that change.) I spent some of my time with Bravely Default 2 grinding in handheld mode while watching YouTube videos or right before bedtime, making it feel like a positive time-waster rather than time wasted. But if you’re less inclined than I am to enjoy turning off your brain and watching the numbers go up, be warned that grinding is definitely required here.Be warned: grinding is definitely required here.Grinding levels and grinding jobs are two different things, and I quickly developed strategies for doing either one optimally. For levels, I would find the hardest enemies I could stand and just fight a bunch of them. For jobs, the "JP" (or job points) that are tied to advancement don't require you to seek out harder and tougher enemies, so you can grind up your job levels on easier foes instead. (I personally recommend the desert, with bait equipped, and try to battle Wiki-Wikis.) I really like how the JP system isn't tied into difficulty because that made it easier to level up my jobs without feeling like I was risking death by taking on wave after wave of tough foes. By the end I had earned a passive ability that made it even easier, and it still felt fun. In fact, I was so overpowered it felt like I was exacting revenge on all those enemies who had given me such a hard time early on. Take that, stupid Undines and your healing abilities!I ran into a few bosses and dungeons where I was quickly defeated, often because I didn't have the right job leveled-up for the task at hand. Thankfully, Bravely Default 2 gives you abilities that make that easier as you progress. On top of passive abilities like the freelancer's "JP Up," which gives you a boost to your earned job points and the option to turn battle speed up to a ludicrous four times the regular pace returns from the previous games. I got so used to playing at 4X speed that it would feel like time itself had slowed to a crawl whenever I dropped it back down during boss battles. Tools like this don’t eliminate the grind, but they do help ease the time investment leveling will take.I was really happy to see some sort of community integration carried forward into the Switch era.Speaking of quality-of-life features, one of my favorites from the Bravely series on 3DS was the ability to turn up, or off, random monster encounters. I liked having the flexibility of limping back to a town with the encounter rate off, or turning it all the way up to grind even quicker. However, since battles in Bravely Default 2 aren't random (they’re structured more like Dragon Quest with monsters wandering the overworld,) those options are gone. But the good news is you can now easily avoid them if need be – in fact, if you're overpowered, they'll flat-out run away (as more video game enemies should when they see someone out of their league approaching, frankly). And if you do want to grind and fight more enemies, you can use bait to attract certain types to you, even fighting consecutive waves with increasing rewards. As worried as I was about losing out on a feature I really liked from the original games, I'm happy to say the new system works just about as well.Another helpful system that seems like an attempt to fill the gap that the Switch’s lack of StreetPass has left involves sending a ship off to meet with other players while your system is asleep. You can let the ship sail for a maximum of 12 hours, and when you check on its progress you get a rundown of which other players it met on its journeys and which treasures it discovered. Many of the treasures are XP- or JP-boosting, so it's in your best interest to put your Switch to sleep once in a while. It's not as great as the StreetPass features of the earlier games because there's no way to summon those random strangers to help you out of a pinch, but I was really happy to see some sort of community integration carried forward into the Switch era. And the people you meet on your ocean voyages do eventually matter, but once again, the specifics fall into some spoilery territory.I also appreciated that you can swap between Easy, Normal, or Hard difficulty at any time if you run up against a tough battle or if grinding becomes so easy it’s boring. You don't even need to back out to the menu and restart, you can just decide "I'm going to take it easy for a while" and flip the setting over at will (not that I, a very manly gamer man, would ever do such a thing). While I stuck with Normal for nearly the entirety of my playthrough and found it to be pretty well balanced, I did test out the Easy against that annoying boss I mentioned earlier and it made a little bit of a difference without reducing it to a total cakewalk. It didn't appear to affect my XP and JP, either – so if you just want to play and enjoy an easier experience, who am I to judge?Regardless of difficulty, there’s no shortage of things to experience: Bravely Default 2's story, along with stopping to smell the occasional sidequest, took me about 65 hours to complete. It definitely has its ups and downs in that time and the total number of hours is significantly padded by grinding, but it maintains a comforting familiarity throughout, and (avoiding spoilers) the way it all played out at the end left me both smiling and a little surprised. After all of that, I still have plenty more I want to do too, with new bosses and more job-related secrets to uncover that will keep me busy far past the credits (and that’s not even including the New Game+ mode that unlocks after getting there). Like I said, there’s a lot of JRPG here.
Ghosts ‘n Goblins Resurrection Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/ghosts-n-goblins-resurrection-review|Like a zombie emerging from a graveyard, Capcom’s classic Ghosts ‘n Goblins series has come back to life and shuffled its way onto the Nintendo Switch in the form of Ghosts ‘n Goblins Resurrection. But this storybook-styled semi-sequel is anything but braindead, reimagining and remixing the best elements of the ‘80s Ghosts ‘n Goblins and Ghouls ‘n Ghosts, and offering a raft of flexible difficulty options to make it far and away the most approachable entry in the action platformer series to date. Of course, that doesn’t mean it isn’t still as hard as coffin nails if you want it to be.There are eight different weapons for Arthur to get his hands on, the bulk of which have their own clear strengths and weaknesses – from the classic lance that can be lobbed long distances but only deals a medium amount of damage, to the hammer which delivers a more devastating shockwave but requires you to get uncomfortably close to enemies in order to be effective. Some weapons are also better suited to certain environments than others, such as the bladed discus that can be skimmed along undulating terrain towards their target, or the spiked ball that can be hurled like Donkey Kong’s barrels down cascading platform sections in order to skittle enemies below.Arthur’s movements may be as stubborn as ever, but Resurrection’s difficulty options are surprisingly flexible. I opted to play through on the second hardest setting, ‘Knight’, and although I didn’t regret it it did make me sweat. Fortunately, while you can’t permanently reduce the overall difficulty once your quest has begun, Resurrection still offers you a small amount of mercy if and when you need it: Die a few too many times within one checkpointed area, and you’ll be asked if you want to drop the difficulty down for the remainder of that level, thinning the enemy herds and reducing the amount of damage required to take down the boss. If Ghosts 'n Goblins Resurrection can be considered as a form of side-scrolling sadomasochism, then these optional mid-level difficulty drops serve as its safe word. Your overall points bonus for completing the level are penalised, but it’s a small price to pay to prevent your progression from stalling for too long, and I’m not too proud to admit that I gladly took these lifelines on a handful of the more desperate occasions over the course of my two playthroughs.
Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/super-mario-3d-world-bowsers-fury-review|Sandwiched between the sublime planet hopping of Super Mario Galaxy and the absurdist delights of Super Mario Odyssey, Mario’s Wii U outings are very much the black sheep – or perhaps more appropriately, the colourful cats – of the franchise. They’re getting another shot, however. First, New Super Mario Bros. U returned in a deluxe 2019 re-release, and now it’s Super Mario 3D World’s turn. And better still, the already decent-sized Wii U adventure is bolstered by an entirely new outing: Bowser’s Fury.Both parts of the package certainly have their moments – and Bowser’s Fury in particular has a pretty interesting central hook – but by the time I was finished I still had an itch that Mario’s cat suit didn’t quite scratch.Back in 2013, IGN’s reviewer praised Super Mario 3D World for being a joy to play, both in single player and with friends. Many of the points made in that review very much still stand, in particular the entertainment value from the fact that each level is typically built around a unique gameplay twist.Much like the Galaxy games, this has allowed Nintendo’s designers to flit nimbly from idea to idea. In one level platforms appear and disappear in time to music. In another, players use the gyro functionality to activate blocks themselves. There are levels with all sorts of fun concepts – playing in silhouette, walking on invisible tiles, steering through mazes of Futurama-style pipes, and navigating paths with panels that flip each time you jump. There’s even a level that pays homage to Super Mario Kart, complete with music straight from the SNES classic.Power-ups add to the variety, giving Mario a cannon on his head, or allowing him to be cloned and tasking players with wrangling several of the portly plumber at once. Levels generally contain standalone micro-challenges too – short, single room set pieces that are one and done. And as is so often the way, Super Mario 3D World’s true scope - its full set of Worlds - doesn’t become apparent until well after you’ve “beaten” the game.The visual design is also still a highlight. The environments are wonderfully vibrant, from the way shrubs and flowers bop along to the jaunty melodies that are apparently piped into each area, through to the impressive amount of variety between worlds. The suite of cat suit animations are also just so lovingly composed. Mario doesn’t need to wiggle his bum before he pounces, for instance, but the move is so much the better for that small detail, and that's just one of many.That said, playing Super Mario 3D World again now, the gameplay actually feels like a bit of an awkward fit for the presentation. Levels are viewed from fixed perspectives (that can often be shifted left or right) and generally have limited depth, giving you a path to follow but only so much room to move within it. This has a few unfortunate knock-on effects.Despite sharing some design principles with Super Mario Galaxy, for instance, 3D World feels a lot more staid. Of course, there’s a pretty big difference between Mario running all the way around planetoids and the levels here, in which he’s basically trapped in a set perspective diorama, but 3D World’s presentation means that even transitions lack the dynamism and excitement that naturally come hand in hand with galaxy-hopping. To get from one playspace to another in the Galaxy games, for instance, you literally rocket off the surface of the world you’re on and zoom through space, spinning and twirling and collecting Star Bits as you go. In 3D World you, erm, go into a box… and then come out of a box in a different place. At best you fly slowly through a glass pipe. It just doesn't feel as effervescent as Mario's most freewheeling outings.Of course, the designers have tried to think outside the presentational box in a few different ways. The introduction of the cat suit is perhaps the most notable, as it lets players scale walls, reinventing the playspace and revealing secrets or unseen paths that were previously out of sight. Heck, you can even run right up the flagpole at the end of each course. It’s a liberating inclusion, expanding your possibilities in ways that throwing fireballs and boomerangs or swiping enemies with your tanooki tail doesn’t. Other power-ups also transform traversal, whether you’re soaring up into the sky using a Propeller Box or stomping through the scenery after chomping down on a Mega Mushroom.Even so, I just don’t enjoy Super Mario 3D World’s gameplay as much as other entries in the series, and I think that has a lot to do with this game’s heritage. The foundation of this design was born in Super Mario 3D Land for 3DS, after all, and in that context it excelled. The constrained scope of levels suited handheld play and the limits of the hardware well, while the set perspective and movement restrictions gave Nintendo’s designers the perfect diorama-like design to showcase the system’s 3D screen. It worked wonderfully.On console, it’s a rather different story. Without the depth perception enabled by a 3D screen, the forced viewpoint makes spatial awareness harder to judge than it would be in a purely 2D design or in a 3D game with full camera control. As such, 3D World doesn’t feel as intuitively precise as other Mario games.This feeling is compounded when you throw additional players into the mix. Yes, just like the New Super Mario Bros. games for Wii, Wii U, and Switch, up to four people can quest together – in this case choosing from Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Toad and eventually, Rosalina. The result is chaotic and fun, but also haphazard; some levels and challenges simply don’t work that well with four people running around in them.Multiplayer is a mixed bag in other ways, too. The core of the experience is meant to be a push and pull between cooperation and competition. On one hand you’re working together to get to the end of the stage but, on the other, you’re also fighting to get the most points and win the crown… that you then get to wear in the next level. This tension can be fantastic – one minute I’d leave a power-up for a friend to help them out, the next I’d pick them up and try to toss them off the map.One of the places where it fails, however, is when the shared pool of lives runs out and prematurely ends the fun. Why have lives at all? As long as one player remains on solid ground then why can’t we keep trying to bumble our way through a level? That would suit the random, anarchic-feeling gameplay a whole lot more, and it would also mean that less experienced players aren’t punishing the whole team if they die over and over.The differences between playable characters is more of a negative than a positive, too. It’s rare that you’d want to use Toad, for instance, who is fast but can't jump very high. Luigi, too, can be tricky if there’s a lot going on, as you need to judge both his larger jump and the fact that he skids to a stop. Rosalina, on the other hand, is just broadly better. Not only does she have a spin attack out of the gate, but she can basically double jump. Yes, she’s the slowest and yes, she’s the only character to lose her core abilities when she’s wearing a suit, but still, she’s always the first draft pick.The solution to this would be to simply let multiple people use the same character and then put them in different colours, but that’s not an option. Of course, the deeper solution is to have levels designed specifically for multiplayer outside the main storyline. That’s perhaps too much to ask for a re-release like this, but it’s disappointing no improvements were made at all. Even the scoring system, in which whoever gets to the top of the flagpole basically insta-wins, is unchanged.Instead, the main change to multiplayer is the introduction of online play, which I wasn’t able to test ahead of release. And to be honest, if I was going to play this again with other people, I’d want to be in the same room, anyway.Playing with friends is still fun for a change of pace, but 3D World’s levels feel much more appropriate for one – or possibly two – players. I mostly played it solo and for the most part stuck with Ol’ Reliable, Mario, then Rosalina once I’d unlocked her. There isn’t a great deal of impetus to use the other characters beyond curiosity and obtaining the occasional character-specific stamp.Speaking of the stamp system, it’s been integrated with the game’s new Snapshot mode. This will be familiar to anyone who’s played Super Mario Odyssey, and lets you pull up a camera-style interface, then zoom, pan, and switch filters to get your shot just right. The addition of stamps into the mix is a great concept, but works a lot better in Bowser’s Fury, in which you can more easily frame a scene. In 3D World you’ll often not be able to move the camera at all. It’s also a little disappointing that you can only rotate stamps, not flip them to face the other way or adjust their size. There’s quite a low limit on how many stamps you can have on screen at once, too.Snapshot mode is a good addition, but I would have liked to see Nintendo make some single player quality of life changes too. Player lives feel really anachronistic at this point, for instance, and only get in the way of actually enjoying the game. Structurally, their purpose is to force you to restart a level from the beginning if you run out of lives, as opposed to from the checkpoint, but the upshot of this system is that I’d deliberately kill Mario to get back to five lives (not nine, curiously) instead of starting a new level with only one or two lives, just to avoid the possibility of losing checkpoint progress. That doesn’t seem like the kind of player behaviour Nintendo would want. There’s no good reason not to have infinite restarts from the mid-level checkpoint, either, as getting to the end of a course generally isn’t meant to be the biggest challenge – it’s finding all three Green Stars and the stamp.Then again, maybe Nintendo’s designers would make the argument that hitting the Game Over screen refreshes the slot machines (which essentially grant extra lives) and the Toad Houses (which let players stock up on power-ups) in the overworld. Sure, but all that shlepping around is just unnecessary busywork, and the Toad Houses in particular feel like a misstep in the first place. Not only is there a fear of wasting what you get from these houses given they won’t reset very often, they highlight how much more fun – and challenging – 3D World could have been with a deterministic loadout system.The way it currently works is you’ll go into a level in whatever state you finished the last level. If you happened to be mini-Mario, for instance, have fun, because you’re starting the new level as mini-Mario (and for the record, there’s no other instance in which this happens – in all other circumstances you start as regular-sized Mario). Alternatively, if you happened to finish the last level in the cat suit, with a tanooki suit in reserve, well, aside from having extra movement and combat options, you can also take a bunch more hits in the next course. I understand that the designers want you to roll with whatever you’ve got, and also that they’ll provide appropriate power-ups within each level (although, if you’re mini-Mario, enjoy the mushroom in place of something better), but rather than it being a fun test of skill, it instead feels punitive.I can’t help but imagine a (3D) world in which you can choose your loadout before every level. Each slice of gameplay would start on an even playing field, and experimenting with different suits could be part of the challenge, and even tie into getting specific collectables. In essence this is how Bowser’s Fury works – you build up a stockpile of power-ups and can basically switch between them at will. It’s much more fun.I also would have liked to see Nintendo take inspiration from Super Mario Odyssey’s assist functionality. With that option on, kids could find their platforming feet, secure in the knowledge that if they fall into the abyss the game will just pop them back up onto solid ground. 3D World has an Invincible Super Leaf pickup which appears once you’ve failed a level enough times, but this only protects players from enemies, not from falling to death… which is the bigger hurdle on a lot of courses. A change to this would have been great for beginners and made a huge difference to multiplayer too.As it stands, Super Mario 3D World has some great levels and challenges, but I don’t think it fully succeeds as either a single player or multiplayer game, and it’s a real shame Nintendo didn’t take this re-release as its chance to address the elements that create friction throughout the game design.So that’s one half of the package. The other is Bowser’s Fury, a whole new, much more contemporary-feeling adventure. Gone is the concept of lives, and the fixed perspective, replaced by an open world with full camera control. The other playable characters have also been jettisoned, but Mario is joined by Bowser Jr. and together they’re trying to save the new setting of Lake Lapcat from a malevolent black goop that has taken hold of the Koopa King.The most significant mechanic tied to this setup is that every few minutes Bowser explodes with fury, sending the world into an apocalyptic storm in which glowing blocks drop from the sky and his towering form breathes sweeping jets of fire, decimating anything in their path – occasionally including the frame rate. This rage state will subside in a few minutes, but can also be overcome by directly confronting Bowser or by reaching a Cat Shine – the game’s main collectable. Most of these are found at the lighthouses dotted about the world.After the Lake reverts to sunshine and blue skies, Bowser settles back down into the muck, but soon begins to slowly rise up, giving you a visual indication of how close he is to unleashing his fury once again. It’s an interesting mechanic given that we’re accustomed to open worlds that largely let us set our own pace and agenda. Here, however, Bowser’s Fury is unleashed so regularly that you have to be ready to deal with it at almost any time. It’s not always welcome – occasionally ruining whatever you were doing – but can be used to your advantage. Blocks with Bowser’s face on them can only be destroyed by his furious fire breath, for instance, while the blocks that drop from the sky can actually make platforming challenges easier in the midst of the maelstrom. It’s quite cool seeing how the world is reinvented whenever Bowser blows his top.That said, I did get a little tired of the constant interruptions, and if you’re not within easy reach of a Shine, it quickly becomes apparent that fighting Bowser is an extremely repetitive way to restore the world. This battle is heavy on Godzilla vibes but extremely light on excitement and gameplay. It doesn’t evolve much over the course of Bowser’s Fury, either, and is really just the icing on a pretty half-baked cake as far as bosses are concerned. In 3D World in particular they’re about as gripping as a book written entirely in Lorem Ipsum.King Koopa’s role may be a mixed blessing in Bowser’s Fury, but Bowser Jr. is absolutely a net positive. Younger players can set him to help them by taking out enemies and collecting coins, while purists can turn that off altogether, only using Bowser Jr. when they direct him using the gyro functionality. His main abilities are interacting with question mark walls and being Mario’s power-up caddy. It’s this latter function that really elevates Bowser’s Fury, as it lets you stockpile power-ups and call on him to deliver specific suits as you need them. It turns bonus abilities into tools you can experiment with and use as you see fit, and is much more player friendly than the system in 3D World.Each lighthouse on Lake Lapcat plays host to five Shines, and the layout around each location changes depending on the Shine you’re gunning for. It’s a familiar system, but a good way to pack more gameplay into a small area. The moment to moment action, however, doesn’t contain too many surprises; you’ll be using the same power-ups and suits from 3D World, and a number of challenge types are repeated across the archipelago. That said, the world steadily opens up as you make progress, so there are always new locations or edges of the map to explore. Getting around is good fun, too, thanks to the ability to hitch a ride with the dinosaur Plessie any time you’re near water. Which is all the time.I enjoyed my time with Bowser’s Fury but it ultimately doesn’t feel that essential. This is a Mario title driven more by gimmicks than gameplay. There’s no better example of this than the fact that almost every single creature, enemy, and object in Lake Lapcat is part cat. Goombas are furry, with cat ears and tails. Flowers are shaped like paws and shrubs have cat ears. It’s all extremely silly, and I’ll be the first to admit that it does give the game a fun flavour, but it doesn’t add anything in terms of gameplay, and that’s surprising. The best Mario games take their goofy ideas and tie them into core mechanics that directly impact puzzles and platforming. Here, it’s largely window dressing.
Olija Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/olija-review|If you have nostalgic love for old Amiga and MS-DOS sidescrollers, Olija is a game that practically demands your attention. Its striking minimalist art style is complimented by a fluidity of movement and realistic animations that will immediately bring to mind games like Flashback, Another World, or the original Prince of Persia. But even if you lack that frame of reference, Olija stands on its own as a 2D action game with exceptional combat, a chilling atmosphere, and a small handful of great boss fights that go a long way toward elevating its otherwise disappointingly short adventure above your average retro-themed platformer.Developed by Kyoto-based Skeleton Crew Studio, Olija is a game with a story that’s simple but well told: our hero, a penniless lord named Faraday who finds himself marooned in a mysterious land, needs to rescue his shipwrecked crew and find a way back home. The only problems in his way are creepy black goopy creatures, hostile natives, and monstrous beings that have been awakened thanks to Faraday taking possession of a magical harpoon.That harpoon is what drives the design of Olija, and it's a large part of why combat and movement are so much fun. Much like Noctis from Final Fantasy 15, Faraday can throw the weapon and teleport to whatever it punctures. In combat, the use of this is obvious: it allows Faraday to instantly close the distance between himself and a foe, and that means there’s a quick and snappy pace for every encounter – but it’s also a super fun tool to use when it comes to exploring the world.While Olija’s levels are segmented much like a Metroidvania, with the camera only showing what’s in the room you’re currently in, you can still chuck your harpoon into an open room off screen; if it hits something that you can teleport to, you can instantly warp over to that unseen spot. There are many secrets hidden this way throughout Olija’s world, and being rewarded for your curiosity when you throw your harpoon into a suspicious-looking gap in a wall always feels great.The harpoon isn’t the only thing that makes Olija’s gameplay stand out. Its combat, while simple, feels extremely good at a fundamental level thanks to how impactful your blows are and the variety of attacks you have at your disposal. Basic attacks can be modified by the direction you’re holding – for example, if you want to do a quick combo without a lot of range, you can just mash the attack button without holding a direction, but if you need a little more reach, you could hold forward as you strike. If you want to do a big AOE smash attack that knocks enemies away you could hold down, or you could just jump in the air and use your aerial attack to bounce on enemies, Shovel Knight-style. If you manage to land four hits without taking any damage, you’re rewarded with a super attack that also changes depending on the direction you’re holding, what secondary weapon you’re using, and whether you’re in the air or on the ground. There’s a lot going on!In addition to that, there are also a variety of different hats to purchase that offer helpful boons which can alter the way you approach combat. My favorite increases your movement and attack speed if you land hits while avoiding damage, letting you punish bosses greatly when you expose their weakpoint. Others are more situational, but still helpful nonetheless, such as a hat that makes you completely immune to poison damage.So there’s a lot of decisions to make about how you’ll fight, which is great. The only issue is that the enemies in Olija rarely push you to the point where you really need to make these kinds of decisions. The AI just doesn’t have any answer for the mobility that your harpoon provides, nor do the limited variety of enemy types ever present any sort of threat that really forces you to react to what they’re doing. This means that Olija is pretty easy, and with no difficulty options to beef it up, there’s not much incentive to really explore the depth of the combat once you have a handle on the basics.Boss battles, fortunately, fare much better than standard enemy encounters, both in terms of their challenge and their variety. There are some that are the typical big boss battles where you have to dodge high-damage attacks to strike at flashing weakpoints, but my favorite involves a fight against three hunters who each have their own unique approach to harassing you. One constantly runs away and heals the other two, another tries to keep to the midrange to fill the screen with bullets, and the third sticks to you like glue with aggressive dash attacks and quick melee combos. It’s a really fun fight, and I wish the rest of the levels sprinkled tough enemies like these in regular fights as opposed to just keeping them all locked away in a single boss battle, never to be seen again.Finally, Olija is also incredibly short. The campaign took me a little under four hours to complete the first time through, and while there are collectibles to seek out, most areas that contain them lock upon completion so you often can’t return to scour for any secrets you missed the first time through. It really is four hours well spent, but it certainly left me wanting either more to see or a good reason to replay what I’d already seen.
Cyber Shadow Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/cyber-shadow-review|Cyber Shadow sets out to answer a very simple question: what would an NES Ninja Gaiden game look and play like if it were made today? Admittedly, it’s a hypothetical that The Messenger sort of already answered back in 2018... but look, sometimes questions like these can have multiple good answers, and Cyber Shadow is no better proof of that.This retro-styled action platformer developed by Mechanical Head Studios and published by Shovel Knight developer Yacht Club Game is a truly great take on the 2D Ninja Gaiden formula – but more than that, it’s constantly evolving and brilliantly adds new gameplay and level design challenges with every new upgrade that it gives you. These upgrades continue to compound upon each other to the point that, by the time you reach the end of Cyber Shadow’s seven to eight-hour adventure, it’s morphed from a simple yet fun action platformer to an absolutely wild and occasionally brutally difficult one that surpasses its inspiration in every way.Cyber Shadow puts you into the pixelated ninja boots of the titular (cyber) Shadow, who awakens from an incubation pod to find a destroyed city that’s been overrun by out-of-control machines. It’s a serviceable story at best, told through both in-game dialogue boxes and nostalgic 8-bit cutscenes with large, detailed, but still very low-res sprites, much like the NES Ninja Gaiden games. Its big weakness is that there’s just very little personality to any of it. Shadow himself is a mute protagonist, and with one notable exception (who’s gone all too quickly) all of the characters he interacts with largely feel like they exist solely to be exposition dumps. There’s little reason to care about the evil Dr. Progen, your master, or the members of your clan he holds captive.Where Cyber Shadow does deliver, however, is in its gameplay. It really hits on all fronts: level design, enemy design, enemy variety, character progression, boss battles – it’s all top notch. Your set of tools begins very modestly: Shadow can jump and can slash his sword horizontally, and... that’s it. This limited moveset is a large part of what drives the challenge in the early goings because enemies and obstacles approach from all angles but you can only hit things that are directly in front of you (much like in, you guessed it, Ninja Gaiden).But this is a modern take on old-school design, and it comes with modern assists to help smooth the hard edges a little: checkpoints not only give you a respawn point but also restore your health when you step on them. If that’s not enough, you can spend a currency called essence to unlock permanent upgrades for that specific checkpoint that will either restore your magic or provide you with a powerup when you respawn from there. These powerups are especially cool because they’re almost always specifically designed to be especially useful in the upcoming section; for example, a shield that can block projectiles from the front right that becomes available before a particularly bullet-hellish encounter.My absolute favorite powerup, though, is the aptly named Swag Blade. This monster tethers a saw blade to your character that can be manipulated through your momentum. So if there’s an enemy above you that you can’t hit with your sword, you can simply jump in place until the Swag Blade gets enough momentum to bounce up and down and reach it. Or if there’s an enemy straight ahead, you can also strike the blade with your sword to give it some instant forward momentum and take them out from a distance. It’s a super fun and creative weapon to use, and I wish I was given more opportunity to do so than the one chapter it’s available in.Cyber Shadow really hits its stride just a little more than halfway through, once you gain the ability to sprint. It’s at this point where it metamorphosizes from a Ninja Gaiden-esque larva state and becomes entirely its own beast. Sprinting gives you the ability to use a super-fast dash slice that can go right through enemies and obstacles, allowing you to use it both as a devastating attack and to reach new areas – sometimes even both at the same time. Some of the best moments came when I was able to dash my way across a level without ever touching the ground.All throughout Cyber Shadow’s campaign, it never feels like it’s running out of ideas, and I found myself uniquely challenged by each new chapter even as my abilities and strengths grew. A lot is thrown at you all at once, often while forcing you to deal with some other sort of environmental nightmare, like: orbital laser beams, a creeping mass of instant-kill spikes, a rising elevator that threatens to squish you below instant-kill spikes, or security lasers that, when tripped, will activate extra enemy robots and turrets that mercilessly hunt you down.Needless to say, Cyber Shadow becomes quite difficult, but it's a difficulty that always felt manageable once I’d learned the various quirks and nuances of the many enemies that patrol each chapter. Most have multiple spots where they can be hit, and they change their behavior depending on what part of their body you break; others are seemingly impenetrable until you’re able to use Shadow’s projectile parry to stop their bullets and send them flying right back towards them; and others still fly at you from awkward angles, forcing you to reposition before you’re able to take them out. There’s just an incredible amount of variety in the enemy design, and it works hand in hand with both the level design and Shadow’s upgrades to ensure that Cyber Shadow is consistently fresh and challenging.After defeating the final boss I was surprised to find that there’s no New Game+ or anything of the sort waiting in the post game, but there are plenty of collectibles and upgrades that can be found by revisiting earlier levels with abilities you obtain later, which provides some extra value for those who like to aim for 100% completion. Beyond that, there’s also the signature Yacht Club list of feats that provide a set of unique challenges, like making it to the first boss without killing any enemies or defeating a certain boss without damaging it with your sword. There’s seemingly no reward for completing these, but they’re fun and interesting enough to make me want to try and accomplish as many as I can anyway; a task that will keep me busy for quite a while.Finally, it’s worth mentioning one other similarity between Cyber Shadow and The Messenger: their soundtracks are both absolute bangers. Every chapter has its own theme song, often with multiple arrangements that adjust the moods appropriately, and it’s all extremely catchy and well produced.
Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/hyrule-warriors-age-of-calamity-review|If there’s one thing The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild fans want, it’s more Breath of the Wild, and Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity is here to give us… something kinda like that. Like the previous Hyrule Warriors games, this is Zelda as seen through a Dynasty Warriors lens, but the key difference here is that Age of Calamity’s premise takes us back to the events of The Great Calamity referenced throughout Breath of the Wild. This is the story of the Champions, of Zelda’s struggle to awaken her power, and of the resurrection of Ganon. The resulting game is a great fit for Koei Tecmo’s famous 1 vs 1000 gameplay, and also a fun new spin on a much-loved world.Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity really does feel like a love letter to Breath of the Wild. It goes out of its way to include as many of the signature elements of that game as it can, from the bestiary and Sheikah powers, through to cooking, Koroks, clothing options and paragliding, and they really set the tone – but it doesn’t stop there.Age of Calamity is packed with systems, mechanics, locations, and Easter eggs pulled from its predecessor, and coming across these is a joy. Of course Link can shield surf! Or parry Guardian lasers. And why shouldn’t he wield tree branches, soup ladles, and mops as weapons? And why not cast Magnesis to yank treasure chests out of the ground or use an Octorok to polish up rusty weapons? And what could be more normal than tuning the Sheikah Sensor to find ingredients across the map? My more than 40 hours with Age of Calamity were filled with moments in which Koei Tecmo’s reverence for the source material was abundantly clear.Age of Calamity is able to expand upon this world in a number of areas too. There’s a large cast of playable characters for one, letting you get a sense for how deadly Impa was as a young woman, or how skilled the Champions were in battle during their prime. We even get to pilot the Divine Beasts, and while these missions aren’t actually all that exciting, they’re still a good palate cleanser, as well as an effective way to bring Breath of the Wild’s backstory to life, and to make these lumbering titans feel more real than they ever did before.Perhaps the most significant new twist, however, is also likely to be the most divisive. The opening cutscene introduces us to a miniature Guardian who comes alive at the moment Zelda’s powers awaken – when all hope is lost – and then travels back in time to warn the heroes about what is to come. Now, the Guardian itself is adorable, sure, but the time-traveling motif naturally raises the question of whether this prequel will follow the events as described in Breath of the Wild, or whether it will create its own timeline by altering the past.I’m not going to directly answer that question here, as the story should be yours to discover, but what I will say is that while many events transpire, and there’s plenty of high-stakes drama, the actual characterisation along the way is pretty lacking. Zelda, for instance, spends a big chunk of the time playing the one note she played in most of the memories in Breath of the Wild – namely, self-doubt that she’ll ever unlock her power and be useful. It’s disappointing that she’s played so straight when this was an opportunity to do more with, well, all of the main characters, actually.This is especially awkward because in battle, Zelda is a straight-up brawler – she wields the Sheikah Slate as her primary weapon, and yet, this badass killing machine is still meek, bookish, and lacking confidence as far as the story is concerned. There’s even an escort mission in which she can’t fight, despite the fact that – mere moments earlier – she was slaughtering hundreds if not thousands of Bokoblins, Moblins, Lizalfos, and everything else Hyrule’s got. If Age of Calamity can toss a time-travelling Guardian into the mix, surely it could’ve done a little more with Zelda, too?Another way to look at it is that Breath of the Wild’s story was disjointed by design – you pieced it together as you came across memories and other flashbacks, whereas here we have a storyline that runs from start to finish, yet still doesn’t really tell us anything meaningful about its characters.None of this should really be a surprise, though, because Age of Calamity is not trying to be a Final Fantasy game. Big events are often delivered through narrated text on-screen (with some pretty questionable voice acting), while the cutscenes are largely just brief interludes that help keep the story going, or show off something cool. The primary purpose of the overarching story really is to provide a backbone for ever-evolving gameplay across the dozens of hours of Age of Calamity. And in this capacity it serves its purpose admirably.While I’d have liked a little more insight into the characters, the Rock Roast of this game really is its combat. The foundation is deliberately simple, with every character having an array of different combos based around regular attacks transitioning into strong attacks, as well as a unique central mechanic. Impa, for instance, uses ZR to place symbols on enemies which she can then absorb with strong attacks to create mirror images of herself. Absorb three symbols and she’s at full power, with a line of clones fighting to either side of her. Impa can feel absurdly powerful in this state, spraying a barrage of blades at anyone in even the vaguest of vicinities. This feeling of power only grows as you upgrade her weapons and start to take advantage of seals – weapon augmentations – that suit her play style.What’s impressive is that every character in the roster is this distinct. Urbosa, for instance, has a lightning gauge which can be channeled – one segment at a time – into extra-powerful strong attacks in her combos. Her fighting style is very much like a dance, and I love how she balances elegant, contained moves with outright devastation. Her lightning gauge is instantly refilled after using a weak-point smash too, allowing you to chain together shockingly effective sequences of moves.Mipha, meanwhile, literally swims around the battlefield, and her key mechanic lets her close the distance to enemies by bursting from fountains, then juggle them in the air before launching them again with another fountain, and so on. Seals that do extra damage to airborne enemies work well for Mipha's tridents.I’d love to also tell you about some of the insane characters you’ll unlock later on, but that would be spoiler territory, so instead I’ll just say: woah. Age of Calamity has some awesome surprises and some truly deep cuts that fans are really going to love. They don’t all land – some characters are more intuitive to use and more robust in design than others – but still, the overall roster is a lot of fun.Coming back to what we can discuss, Link is perhaps the most traditional character, but he also offers up the most variety: he boasts different combos, special attacks, and ZR mechanics based on the weapon type he’s using – sword and shield, spear, or the two-handed weapon category. Sword and shield, for instance, opens up parrying, shield surfing, and a rapid-fire bow, whereas two-handed weapons let him sacrifice some of his own health to juice up attacks. He’s a powerhouse.Of course, these are just a few of the ingredients going into this mighty combat stew. Every playable character can also use four Sheikah runes – Stasis, Cryonis, Magnesis and Remote Bombs – with a unique implementation for each character. Link uses his Cryonis block as a launcher, for instance, while Impa rides hers around like some kind of ultra-compact ice car. It’s fun seeing how each has been realised in-game.The runes’ role in combat is less freewheeling than you might expect them to be, however, as each boss – including area bosses – clearly signposts when to use a particular rune against them. It’s not enough for a big Bokoblin to be holding a shield in front of its body – you’ll also get an unmissable bomb icon telling you explosives are the way to break its guard.This happens in basically every combat encounter and, to be fair, is a wise move for a game that’s aiming to be broadly accessible. Age of Calamity’s combat isn’t meant to be punishing, after all, it’s meant to be empowering fun. The main issue for me is that all of this hand-holding discouraged me from experimenting and using my runes at other times, as I didn’t want to get caught out needing to counter an attack while the ability recharged.That said, there are some instances in which it makes sense to proactively use rune powers. Any time you’re able to open an enemy up to chip away at its weak-point gauge, for instance, you can use Stasis to give yourself the opportunity to whittle it down further. And against any enemy with a weak-point gauge that’s very much your priority, as eliminating the gauge lets you execute a weak-point smash attack which will one-shot most area bosses and do a major chunk of damage to anything tougher. It would have been nice if all the rune powers had a similarly strategic impact, but generally speaking they’re used reactively.Elemental powers, on the other hand, work in much the same way as they did in Breath of the Wild. If you’re facing a Fire Moblin (yes, there are more enemy variants now), using an Ice Rod is going to be super effective, whereas waggling a Fire Rod in its direction will tickle it at best. And of course you can do things like target a metal crate with a Lightning Rod to amplify the area of effect. It’s good to see these kinds of interactions return.Perhaps the most critical part of why the combat feels good, however, is Age of Calamity’s implementation of dodging. Being able to lock on to larger enemies then dodge away from their attacks is a big part of what gives the action its sense of speed, letting you dance around the outside of a massive enemy or go straight at Lynels, confident you can evade their Savage Lynel Swords. And best of all, if you dodge at the right time you’ll trigger a Flurry Rush that gives you an opening to take a big chunk off the opponent’s weak-point gauge. In Age of Calamity, dodging – and by extension the Flurry Rush – is king.Many of the most thrilling missions double down on the fast-paced combat by putting you on the clock. There’s a real sense of urgency when you know you need to capture a certain number of outposts or take down a certain set of powerful enemies within a limited time. In these missions you’re not bothering with the cannon fodder or scouring the corners of the map for Koroks or treasure chests. Instead, you’re bee-lining for your objective, entirely focused on dodging attacks and finding ways to whittle down those crucial weak-point gauges. Often you’re also dispatching allies to the other key points on the map so that you can switch directly from one objective to another.Combat can be a little rough around the edges, however. The camera isn’t always helpful and sometimes loses the action completely. And while Age of Calamity generally feels fast and responsive, the frame rate can vary a bit, and this is even more noticeable in splitscreen co-op, where the game’s gorgeous visual style also takes a significant hit. It’s a real shame Koei Tecmo didn’t allow for online co-op.Age of Calamity can be as easy or as hard as you want it to be. Aside from the broad difficulty settings, you have the freedom to attempt missions while you’re under the recommended level, or conversely, only ever attempt missions once you’re well above. There are so many missions that unlock over the course of the campaign that I almost never found myself having to grind to hit a certain level. In fact, the times I repeated missions were for specific drops or enemy trophies to help me complete subquests across the map. The vast majority of the time I was doing new missions.I really like the way the progression system is structured, too. You can pay to level up allies if need be, but a character’s level is obviously only part of the picture. Completing more missions with a character means you’ll get more weapon drops for them, and spare weapons can be fused onto your existing weapon to make it more powerful and add additional perks via the seal system. And no, your weapons will never break – not even if it’s a tree branch.I’m also a fan of how cooking has been implemented in Age of Calamity. Recipes are unlocked, as opposed to discovered through experimentation, but if you have all the ingredients you’re able to cook one or more meals before every mission, and this opens up a whole host of possibilities. If you’re slightly under-leveled you might want to stack on attack power or reduce damage taken. If you know you’ll be facing a series of bosses you may want to widen the timing window for triggering Flurry Rushes. Perhaps you just want as much XP as you can get. Or bonus rupees. There are so many options, and sometimes making Dubious Food is absolutely the right choice.Age of Calamity really does offer a wealth of content. All the way through the main story I was steadily unlocking new characters, revealing more missions, gaining access to more services and perks, seeing new weapon seals pop up, and upgrading my roster with more combos, more hearts, stronger powers, and so on. At no point did I hit a wall; instead I was always making progress, and always having fun. And even now, with the main story complete, my journey still isn’t over because there’s so much left to do.
Pokémon Sword and Shield: The Crown Tundra  DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/pokemon-sword-and-shield-the-crown-tundra-dlc-review|Like the harsh and snowy climate it's set in, the final DLC for Pokémon Sword and Shield’s season pass is an add-on designed with the most hardcore Pokémon players in mind. The Crown Tundra puts open-world exploration and legendary Pokémon front and center, taking full advantage of the base game's best innovation: wild areas. But while it succeeds in being another entertaining addition to Sword and Shield like The Isle of Armor before it, its weak story is similarly short-lived – and its exciting legendary hunts end with classic, grindy encounters that will have you praying to lady luck.The second part of the Pokémon Sword and Shield expansion pass takes you to the Crown Tundra, an icy mountain region filled to the brim with powerful pocket monsters and frostbitten senior citizens. Like The Isle of Armor DLC, The Crown Tundra is one giant wild area where you’re given 360 degrees of control over the camera and Pokémon roam freely. Unlike wild areas before it though, The Crown Tundra actually makes much better use of the open-world sandbox by cramming it full of legendary Pokémon to track down and secrets to discover. You might find yourself solving a series of riddles to track down some legendary giants or cooking curry to lure out a reclusive unicorn. Though there’s only a few hours of legendary-hunting to be had in total, it’s definitely some of the best content in all of Pokémon Sword and Shield.From our November 2019 Pokemon Sword and Shield review by Casey DeFreitas:"Pokemon Sword and Pokemon Shield are closer to my dream Pokemon RPGs than anything that’s come before. I’d still like better cutscenes, companion Pokemon, the complete Pokedex, and a more visually interesting Wild Area, but nitpicks are just not very effective when everything else was such a complete joy to play. The way they respect my time is wonderful, and the removal of monotony from random encounters and other odds and ends distills it down to only the pure and charming fun of capturing, training, and battling wonderful creatures. And hey, if I’m missing any tedious repetition, I can always get back into breeding."The main story of The Crown Tundra focuses on Calyrex, a psychic/grass-type Pokémon with the awesome and disturbing power to possess humans and use them as meat puppets… and also the power of growing crops. After losing both of those powers and roaming the world as a forgotten deity for generations, you’re entrusted with reuniting Calyrex with its lost steed and restoring it to its former glory. Though the story lacks any real drama or surprises, it does manage to make Calyrex an interesting character who I genuinely cared about, even if the little guy is kinda creepy sometimes.As you hunt for legendaries and lend Calyrex a helping hand, you’ll also spend a lot of time with Peony, a wacky, adventure-crazed former gym leader who serves as your partner throughout the journey. Peony is an entertaining tour guide and bursting with personality, but the storyline and relationship between him and his daughter, Peonia, feels underused and somewhat out of place in this legendary quest. I was expecting the relationship between father and daughter to ultimately serve as a metaphor that the real legendary Pokémon we should strive to capture is family or something, but instead they just made some jokes about how dads are annoying, which is cool too, I guess.Rather than railroading you straight to the linear main quest with Calyrex though, The Crown Tundra offers a more open format with dozens of legendaries to chase in whatever order you choose. Apart from the primary questline, there are a few fun guided legendary expeditions that will account for most of your time in this DLC, like hunting a trio of legendary birds or following footprints to track down some familiar stag-like creatures. There are also secrets and hidden legendaries beyond the basic shopping list for truly dedicated and sharp Pokémon masters to seek out, some of which were actually pretty fun and tricky to puzzle out. This looser formula pairs perfectly with the open-world wild area concept, granting a greater sense of exploration than one might expect from Pokémon.Unfortunately, the traditional structure of catching legendary Pokémon doesn't do this exciting newer method of finding them justice. Since The Crown Tundra mostly focuses on legendaries, you’ll spend a lot of your time throwing Poké Balls at opponents with extremely low capture rates in classic Pokémon fashion, and watching them break out again and again is a sour way to conclude an otherwise entertaining hunt. There’s little you can do to improve your odds aside from the usual methods of lowering a Pokémon’s health, dishing out a status effect, and then hucking different types of balls over and over until you get lucky. In one instance, this led me to throwing all manner of Poké Balls, including plenty of Dusk Balls and Timer Balls, for almost an hour before successfully capturing my target. It's not a new feeling for any experienced Pokémon player, but the novelty runs out pretty quickly when legendaries are such a large part of this DLC.Thankfully there are more than just legendaries in The Crown Tundra, and with this new area comes more than 70 returning regular Pokémon, including welcome additions like Aerodactyl, Jynx, and Dragonite. As with The Isle of Armor, this expansion does not fully solve the problem of an incomplete Pokédex, with over 200 past Pokémon still missing in action, but it does add enough to make capturing all the new and returning ones quite alluring, especially for completionists like me.One of the main draws of The Crown Tundra is “Dynamax Adventures,” an awesome new game mode that seems to take inspiration from roguelike games. This mode acts like a boss rush for the base game's Max Raid Battles: you’re randomly assigned a Pokémon to use alongside three online teammates (or AI when playing solo) and have to fight through a series of Dynamax battles with opportunities to swap and upgrade your Pokémon as you progress. At the end of each adventure waits a legendary Pokémon which can be captured if you manage to defeat it.The Crown Tundra and The Isle of Armor can only be purchased together as part of Pokemon Sword and Shield's Expansion Pass. Here's what I said in my June 2020 review of The Isle of Armor:"The Isle of Armor is a solid first attempt at DLC in a Pokémon game, even if it’s too short-lived to offer anything that feels like a truly substantial addition beyond the location itself. While the new Wild Area is beautifully crafted and the exciting selection of returning Pokemon are fun to catch, the shallow campaign feels like a waste of their full potential."The great thing about Dynamax Adventures is that they actually present a real challenge since you aren’t able to rely on your own powerful Pokémon to carry you through to victory. And since your entire team is only allowed four faints for the entire run, you’ll have to play smart to overcome your opponents and have a shot at the legendary that lies in wait at the end. With so many legendaries available through this mode, there’s plenty of reasons to return and fill out your roster.A less interesting addition is the Galarian Star Tournament, a mode that pits you and a recognizable NPC teammate from Sword and Shield's story against opposing duos in a series of competitive bouts. While it’s fun to revisit and even fight alongside some of the charming characters from the campaign, there aren’t a ton of incentives to do so – especially when hours of grinding it largely just results in two very disappointing unlockable characters.
Pikmin 3 Deluxe Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/pikmin-3-deluxe-review|Like a group of space explorers is search of a hospitable new planet, Pikmin 3 is the latest in a long line of charming Wii U gems to land on the more fertile ground of a suped-up Switch port, and goodness gracious does it deserve it. Already a fantastic mix of adorable real-time strategy and tricky spatial puzzles, Pikmin 3 Deluxe makes the original even better with some enjoyable content additions and boatload of impactful quality-of-life improvements. The only problem now is that I’m nearly out of reasons to keep my Wii U at all.For those who didn’t play it in 2013, Pikmin 3 sends three intrepid explorers hurtling toward the surface of an alien planet in search of fruit to feed their homeworld. There they have to befriend, grow, and command the lovable little creatures that can help them repair their ship and collect enough fruit juice to stay alive while they do it. It’s simultaneously cute and intense as you race both your own juice supply and a sun timer to efficiently multitask and accomplish as much as you can each day, slowly opening more areas up as you unlock new types of these adorable and handy pikmin. Here’s what we said about Pikmin 3 in our original review:“Pikmin 3 is a delight. There’s nothing else like its gentle combination of exploration, strategy, and discovery, and it made me feel both empathy and responsibility for virtual creatures that most games would treat as disposable fodder. It transported me like few other games can, giving the feeling of being a stranger in a strange (but oddly familiar) world. It's over too soon, but it leaves a lasting impression.” - Keza MacDonald, July 22, 2013I agree with just about every word of that in 2020, and Pikmin 3 Deluxe proves just how well all of those strengths hold up. (I urge you to read that review in its entirety to get a full picture of what makes Pikmin 3 so great, since this review will focus largely on the Deluxe changes.)Strategically juggling control of three different leaders still makes this my favorite entry in the series (even if I do love the timer-free dungeons of Pikmin 2 dearly) and the fact that the entire campaign can now be played in split-screen co-op is a wonderful fix to a notable disappointment of the original. And while there aren’t really any noticeable visual improvements here – apart from the fruit juice not killing the framerate every time it flows – its cartoony style means everything still looks great nearly a decade later, even if it’s a little jagged around the edges.One big addition is the inclusion of three difficulty modes: Normal, Hard, and Ultra-Spicy – though these labels are a bit misleading. “Hard” is actually pretty much the original game, while Normal makes tweaks like significantly extending the length of a day and lowering the health of enemies. That caught me off guard as a returning player (especially since Pikmin 3 already felt like the easiest game in the series), but having an option for those who dislike the time crunch is nice all the same. Ultra-Spicy, on the other hand, lowers the number of pikmin you can have in the field from 100 to 60 and cuts the juice you get from fruit in half. It’s certainly a trickier puzzle to multitask with a smaller party, even if it's not necessarily a more interesting or exciting one.But the largest departure, as with all of these “Deluxe” ports, is the amputation of the Wii U Gamepad’s second screen. Thankfully, Pikmin 3 Deluxe works so well without it that I doubt new players will even be able to tell something’s not as it was originally intended to be. The only thing I missed is that pulling up the 2D map takes over your only screen, which means the camera will no longer fly over wherever you’re looking for a 3D peek, but that’s no great loss. And while I was one of the weirdos who preferred playing with the stylus and touch screen, Deluxe has lots of different control options to pick from in its absence.Frankly, the Pikmin series has now appeared on four separate consoles (we don’t talk about Hey! Pikmin) and it’s been a little tough to control on all of them. With Deluxe, you can choose to use the control stick to move your pointer directly, use Wii Remote-style gyro controls for freer aiming, or even a hybrid version where you primarily use the stick but then fine-tune your aim with the gyro, similar to Link’s bow in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. I ended up spending most of my time using full gyro aiming with a Pro Controller, which worked great for the most part even if I did have to “recenter” the pointer pretty frequently (that’s bound to the right bumper, which at least makes it a snap to do).But no matter which control option you pick, Pikmin 3 Deluxe will be easier to handle than the original thanks to a mountain of tweaks and quality-of-life adjustments. The most noticeable is the improved lock-on that makes maneuvering during combat a breeze, but the most exciting changes are much subtler than that. Things like how whistling quickly won’t immediately make a working pikmin stop what it’s doing, allowing you to safely gather nearby idle ones; like how pikmin will more intuitively group up with a nearby leader; like how the Charge command now only sends the type of pikmin you have selected at the time instead of the full group, or how Disbanding will keep just that color in your party, letting you manage your squad faster and take down enemies with elemental effects like fire or electricity more easily. Impactful changes like these are all over Pikmin 3 Deluxe, and it’s an extra step that makes every aspect of playing it less frustrating than any Pikmin has ever been.It’s not just better – there’s also more to play here. Pikmin 3's existing DLC comes bundled in like with most of these Deluxe ports, but there are also brand new Side Story missions that act as a prologue and epilogue to the campaign, remixing small sections of its existing levels – occasionally to the point where they are almost unrecognizable due to the addition of new walls or even all the water being drained away from a previously flooded landscape. These missions give you control of Olimar and Louie and feel a bit like more involved versions of the optional treasure missions already in the base game rather than an extensive add-on to the campaign itself.Each one has a little bit of story flavor to set the stage and then a specific objective to complete on a short timer. Those brief tales are cute little cutscenes for the missions in the shorter “Olimar’s Assignment” Side Story, but I was sad to see they turned into solely text-based intros for the longer secondary one (which unlocks after you beat the campaign and Nintendo has asked us not to talk specifics about). But even with the thinner setups, these missions do a good job of offering more than the Mission mode does thanks to their clever objectives, like having to escort an object across a map or splitting Olimar and Louie up for the entire level. They aren’t super challenging – on the whole they’re easier than the included treasure missions – but they still provide a satisfying hit of fresh Pikmin cleverness and charm while we eternally wait for Pikmin 4.Beyond that, there are a surprising number of other little added delights scattered throughout. Pikmin 2’s Piklopedia has made an unexpected return, letting you take a closer look at all the creatures you murder and mercilessly convert into seeds. A surprisingly extensive Badge system has also been introduced, with Badges given basically as in-game achievements to reward you for actions like collecting a certain amount of fruit or doing well in missions and Side Stories. Badges will even increase an arbitrary ranking as you earn more of them, if you’re looking for some Pikmin-based bragging rights. They are a neat addition, if a small one.
Ghostrunner Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/ghostrunner-review|There is no shortage of great ninja-centric video games out there, from Ninja Gaiden to Metal Gear Rising to more recent gems like Katana Zero. But even among those, Ghostrunner stands out by being 100% committed to delivering that fantasy of becoming a super fast and deadly assassin. This is a game where you run fast, slide fast, kill fast, and if you can’t do those things fast enough, you die fast. It can be very demanding and requires pinpoint platforming precision and split second decision making, but it’s rarely ever frustrating thanks to instant respawns, mostly generous checkpointing, and most importantly, open ended combat encounters that offer multiple methods of approach. Make room at the table, Raiden, there’s a new sword-wielding cyberninja badass in town.Taking place in a cyberpunk-themed post apocalypse, Ghostrunner tells the story of a cybernetically enhanced swordsmen who awakens after getting thrown out of a tower with little memory of what happened to him, who he is, or why he feels compelled to immediately plunge a sword into the poor soul waiting below him. Guided by the disembodied voice of an old man known as The Architect, the Ghostrunner gets wrapped up in an ongoing power struggle between the supposed rulers of this broken world, the efforts of a dying resistance, and the mystery of who he is.It’s a predictable tale, but the story is nonetheless well told and respectably voice acted. What’s especially great though is how the storytelling almost never slows down the fast pace of this six to eight hour campaign. There’s a lot of well acted dialogue in Ghostrunner, but it all plays out via conversations that happen in the head of the main character. That gives you the choice to either stop and listen intently to what’s being said, or to just push on through the various parkour heavy platforming challenges that typically accompany any long exposition dumps.Of course, the action is what you’re really here for – and if you’ve got a thing for lightning quick, reflex intensive, high risk/high reward combat that gets decided with just a single strike, then Ghostrunner was made just for you.The only main weapon in Ghostrunner is a sword, though your speed and mobility options are weapons unto themselves. The Ghostrunner can run along walls, slide down slopes with great speed, and also utilize a quick dash that can be held down to slow down time and alter the direction of his momentum in mid-air. Chaining all of these abilities together created a wonderful flow of movement that allowed me to nearly effortlessly close the distance between me and the more basic enemies before satisfyingly slicing them in half.Those basic enemies aren’t your only foes for long though, and one of the best things about Ghostrunner is how your adversaries always rise to meet your growing skills and abilities. Just when I got comfortable dodging and deflecting the bullets of the single-shot pistol wielding enemies, I had to deal with machine gun wielding soldiers that forced me to keep moving if I wanted to survive long enough to be able to hit them while they were reloading. After I got used to dealing with those, then I had to learn how to deal with shielded enemies that could only be hit from behind.Best of all is the amount of flexibility each combat scenario offers. There’s often multiple entry points to any given encounter that each come with their own challenges. You might take the right side and have to deal with a machine gun enemy and a long path before you can get to him. Or you could take the left path, take down a ninja guarding a shuriken powerup, and then grind on a rail sniping enemies as you go. I felt like I was always rewarded for checking out different routes whenever I hit a wall.While it’s platforming portions are much more linear, they still benefit from a ton of variety in their challenges. Sometimes you’ll have to hack something to freeze it in place while you navigate through or around it, other times you’ll have to quickly throw shurikens at power plates to open a door and dash through it before it closes, and you’ll often find yourself using dash in creative ways in order to get through tricky obstacles. The deep well of ideas Ghostrunner uses to power its short campaign is not quite Titanfall 2 levels, but it’s extremely deep nonetheless.However, sometimes these ideas do overreach a bit and don’t quite fit with Ghostrunner’s controls. One section, for example, has you collecting 13 items scattered all around a constantly rotating object. It’s an awkward area with physics that feel off and frustrating mantling issues that send you flying towards your death when all you meant to do was pull yourself up to a ledge.Ghostrunner also uses an interesting, albeit slightly gimmicky, upgrade system that allows you to alter and enhance your abilities. You earn upgrades automatically as you progress, which take the form of tetris-like blocks that can be rotated and placed onto a grid. Space is limited, and the better upgrades take much more of the grid, so you’ll have to pick and choose which upgrades you want to have active at any time. The upgrades themselves are pretty good, and I found myself largely keeping space reserved for deflection-based options since I loved being able to bounce bullets back at enemies. That said, I found myself not really caring about rearranging puzzle pieces in order to try and find an “optimal” placement, especially since any unused spaces on the grid will speed up your regeneration of a resource called focus.Focus can be used to power one of your four special moves that each sort of function as a limited and situationally dependent ace in the hole. Blink, for example, can cut straight through shielded and otherwise tough to bring down enemies with one strike and keep your momentum going; Tempest, on the other hand, can be used to reflect projectiles that are otherwise extremely tough to avoid; and Surge is an anime-style sword energy slash that can take out multiple enemies from a distance. The last special move is a bit of a spoiler, but also has its own situational advantages.It’s also impressive that Ghostrunner’s sights and sounds are no slouch either. This is a gorgeous looking game with an equally excellent synthwave-inspired soundtrack that will keep your head bumping all throughout.
Remothered: Broken Porcelain Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/remothered-broken-porcelain-review|As a follow-up to 2018’s enjoyable stealth-based survival horror game Remothered: Tormented Fathers, Remothered: Broken Porcelain is both a sequel and a prequel – but that’s really just a polite way of saying I couldn’t make heads or tails of the chronology of its plot, and I’m not convinced its creators could either. Perhaps I was too distracted by its countless audio dropouts, freezes, broken controller inputs and baffling enemy behaviours to really be able to concentrate on straightening out the tangled threads of its nonlinear narrative. If nothing else, Remothered: Broken Porcelain is aptly named; like a shattered vase it lacks structure, each individual part is rough around the edges, and it’s not really worth the effort to try and piece them all together.At the very least the setting is an appropriately haunting one. Ashmann Inn is an antiquated hotel situated in a secluded snowy mountain region highly reminiscent of Stephen King’s The Shining. Certainly during its opening moments I enjoyed the eerie ambience of its dimly lit hallways as I, controlling the young protagonist Jennifer, indulged in a deadly game of hide and seek with the murderous, mind-controlled hotel maid Andrea (seemingly modelled on Annie from Stephen King’s Misery).Outside of these cumbersome enemy encounters, there’s surprisingly little else to do in Remothered: Broken Porcelain. There are significantly fewer environmental puzzles to solve than there were in Tormented Fathers, with only the occasional cracking of a safe combination to demand much in the way of lateral thought. Instead, Remothered: Broken Porcelain places an emphasis on Jennifer’s ability to temporarily teleport her consciousness into a moth and fly up to out of reach items or, in one instance, agitate a guard dog enough for Jennifer to slip by. It’s an interesting concept, but there’s no real scope for employing it outside of very specific story junctures, and when you do get to use it it’s like trying to pilot a remote-controlled drone through a room submerged in honey. The moth’s movements are seriously listless and it has a tendency to get stuck on parts of the environment. And since it can only be used in short bursts I’d often find myself switching to moth form, getting stuck in a wall on the way to my target, being beamed back to Jennifer, and then forced to wait for a cooldown timer to recharge before I could start the process over again.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate DLC Review - Minecraft Steve|https://www.ign.com/articles/super-smash-bros-ultimate-dlc-review-minecraft-steve|If there’s one thing you can’t take away from Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’s version of Steve from Minecraft, it’s how different he is. Steve and his cosmetically distinct but mechanically identical friends are among the most inventive fighters Ultimate has ever seen, and that’s saying a lot in a game with already wildly unique options like Olimar, Ice Climbers, Hero, and more. The way Minecraft’s mechanics have been incorporated into his moveset is simply incredible. He can craft, build, collect resources, and even upgrade his gear based on what he’s collected. But does that innovative yet faithful implementation actually make him fun to play? Well, that’s a tough question to answer.Steve is one of the most mechanics heavy characters Smash has ever seen.. To start, he requires collectable materials to utilize many of his best attacks, and to craft the weapons and tools that he uses to fight . Crafting materials can be gathered by holding B while on solid ground, and the materials that he gathers are actually affected by the type of ground he’s standing on. So mining on metal will net more iron ingots, while standing on sand will get you sand blocks. There will always be a chance that you’ll get more valuable resources like iron, gold, and diamonds no matter what, so you never have to worry about playing a level that doesn’t have a specific type of resource. Also, when you play on a battlefield or omega stage, those high value materials are dug up at a predetermined rate to eliminate the random chance of it all.Mining resources is an absolute necessity with Steve because, just like in Minecraft, his weapons and tools will eventually break after repeated use, leaving him with a very weak punch to replace his tool-based abilities. To craft new tools, you must be next to a crafting bench and hold B to automatically upgrade all your tools to the highest rarity that your materials allow. It’s initially strange to have a Smash character tethered to an object like this, but thankfully you can teleport your crafting bench directly to you by holding the right trigger and pressing B.Perhaps the biggest weapon in his arsenal is his minecart on forward-B. It’s an extremely powerful dashing attack all on its own, but can be made even more powerful if Steve manages to collect red stone and gold, which adds a little boost to the start up. Beyond that, it can also be used as a great horizontal recovery option, as well as an unblockable ranged grab that can scoop up an enemy if you jump out of the minecart early. This can send foes careening to their death if they don’t manage to mash out of it quick enough, which feels really bad to be on the receiving end of.Another first for any fighter, Steve can also build temporary terrain blocks in the air. You can’t build them out too far away from the stage, but they nonetheless give him a nice defense against juggles when he gets launched vertically and can be used for some interesting set ups for the more creative thinkers out there. However, his trickiest technique involves his down-B TNT block: he can lay down TNT and walk backwards to leave a fuse trail, and then ignite it by either stepping on a pressure plate or by using one of the flame based attacks on either his down-smash or down-tilt. Being able to use his blocks or his TNT in effective ways is pretty tough to get a hang of, but the moments where a clever idea clicks together for a KO make Steve a blast to play.Unfortunately, there are also moments when Steve feels boring and frustrating instead. Steve is so dependent on resources that he constantly needs to either get a big hit to knock the enemy away, or simply run from the action in order to mine up depleted materials. I found myself having a miserably hard time against any characters that were exceptionally fast, or had quick projectiles that could interrupt my mining. It’s especially bad when you’re low on steel because his recovery is significantly worse without being able to use his minecart. The Meta Knight-style glider on his up-B does not give him much vertical lift, making it very hard to recover from the lower parts of a stage – which in turn makes his recovery fairly predictable and unsafe without his minecart. Also, without iron, he’s unable to use his down-air anvil drop at all, which is one of his best kill moves.A lot of this could likely be chalked up to my own inexperience with the character, and I can totally see Steve being a big threat in the hands of someone who knows how to properly manage his limited resources. But Steve’s set-up-heavy gameplay style is not enjoyable enough for me to really want to conquer that steep learning curve.That said, boy does he have some nasty tools at his disposal. Aside from the aforementioned minecart, Steve’s up-smash deserves some special mention, as it covers nearly half of a platform on Battlefield, has a super long active hitbox, and does big damage and knockback. It’s probably one of my favorite up-smashes of any fighter. Steve can also deal big damage at low percentages by doing nothing but walking toward someone while holding A to continuously slap them with a sword, eventually finishing off the “combo” with either a forward-air or smash attack. It’s not very flashy, but it works – assuming his sword doesn’t break.He’s also a nightmare to deal with for certain characters that rely on vertical recoveries because his down-air anvil can be dropped off stage and wreck characters trying to recover from the bottom. Move over Donkey Kong, K. Rool’s got a new most-hated rival.Finally, there’s the stage, Minecraft World, which is actually one of my favorite of the DLC stages. There are multiple versions of the stage, set in different Minecraft biomes, with each match beginning with destructible blocks that eventually give way to reveal a more traditional straightforward Small Battlefield style of stage. There’s all kinds of Minecraftian touches going on in the background as well, such as a day night cycle, zombies coming out at night and then igniting on fire once day break hits, villagers going in and out of houses, and so on.
Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/mario-kart-live-home-circuit-review|There are moments in some games that instantly bring a smile to my face, transporting me back to my childhood while the rest of the world melts into the background. That’s what taking control of Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit’s augmented reality RC kart for the first time felt like. The joy of driving around my living space from a worm’s-eye view while familiar Mario characters zoom by and Koopa Shells fly across the screen is refreshingly different – at least when everything is running smoothly. All too often, frustrating technical limitations can throw a banana peel into the works.Mario Kart Live is a wild hybrid mix of a traditional Mario Kart video game and a physical, remote-controlled toy. You use your Switch to control an actual RC car around tracks you set up in your own home, viewing the action through the car’s camera. Each course is made by placing the four included cardboard gates (no more, no less) which the camera on the car reads as you go through each one in order, but any additional loops and turns you take along the way are entirely up to you. An augmented version of that camera feed is displayed on the Switch itself, overlaying 3D item boxes, opposing AI racers, and all the other things you might expect from a regular Mario Kart game. It’s incredibly novel, though not always as smooth as that sounds.Setting up Mario Kart Live for the first time is a delightfully simple process. All you have to do is point the kart’s camera toward a QR code on your screen, spend some time learning its controls, and set up the cardboard gates. This tutorial phase takes just a few moments, but I found myself taking my time with each step – not because I needed more driving practice, but because it was so freaking cool to zip Mario around my living room, through my kitchen, and under my sofa as my cat playfully followed this strange new device. It’s genuinely magical even before you set up your first real course.Bringing a race track to life requires an ample amount of space and has some restrictions in order to maintain a good connection. Nintendo recommends a room of 15 x 15 max and 10 x 12 for 150 CC speed with the kart never going more than five meters away from your Switch. The console and kart are connected through Wi-Fi, so if you have slow internet speeds you could run into problems.That said, most of the connection issues I had were limited to being too far from the Switch – or one time from having the course gates separated by walls, which Nintendo does not recommend doing for this very reason. Occasionally the framerate could drop while at long distances, and I had a few anomalies where the on-screen gameplay would halt and then skip ahead to where the real-life kart actually was. These issues weren’t common enough to be a major concern, but when they did happen it served as a harsh reminder of the practical limitations of this otherwise impressive technology.I’m fortunate enough to have a pretty spacious communal area in my apartment which gave me a lot of options for setting up different tracks. When pushing Mario Kart Live to its absolute limits, I was able to create a course that was 112 feet long – though some frame drops did occur since I had it weaving around my open living room and kitchen space as well as the adjacent hallway.My favorite course was 80 feet long and had a figure-eight design that went from the living room to the kitchen, looped around the island, went behind the sofa, and finally cut behind the couch to close the loop. It was fun to drive, though it wasn’t just the layout that left me beaming but all the extras I decorated it with. I made it a Halloween-themed course with pumpkins, ghosts, candy, and plastic cups meaningfully placed throughout for a manageably chaotic challenge. And when combined with all the in-game magic of Rainbow Road-style ring boosts and Piranha plant infested gates it was a thrill to drive through.On the opposite end of the spectrum was the track I made in my admittedly large but extremely crowded with furniture bedroom. In contrast to the more spacious living room, there was only a small perimeter around the two desks in this room where a track could fit. This 36-foot track did work, but it also left zero options for course variation and additional real-life obstacles. If I was stuck with only this smaller space for where I could play, I don’t imagine I would enjoy Mario Kart Live much at all.My fondest memories playing were only possible when I had enough room to embrace Nintendo and developer Velan Studios’ invitation to get creative. The gameplay systems they built into the digital part of Mario Kart Live met my own imagination halfway, and this collaboration turned otherwise simple courses into something I loved making and racing on as an adult – and would’ve absolutely adored as a kid.While course design played a crucial role in the fun I had with Mario Kart Live, it would be doing it a disservice to say my enjoyment was limited to that process alone. Unlike Nintendo’s cardboard Labo kits, the fun isn’t primarily bound to the process of building – instead, it begins with it.Course building is a labor of love and the fruits of that labor are cool custom tracks you then get to race on. But keep in mind that I failed at making fun courses a lot before making one I wanted to drive again and again. I made the turns too tight to take; I left fabric on the floor that was hard to avoid and even harder to back out of; I made course loops that were too hard for the kart’s camera to read, causing my laps not to register at all; I put too many real world items on the course, or I didn’t put enough.While there’s some helpful info in the menus, Mario Kart Live offers little guidance in creating courses or considering the real-world issues players may run into. I didn’t mind troubleshooting this on my own, and I imagine inundating players with too many hand-holding guidelines would be off-putting in its own way, but being left to figure it out for yourself can be frustrating at times – especially when Nintendo proved it can do creativity-based level design tutorials so well in Super Mario Maker 2.Once your designs are complete, beating your digital AI opponents isn’t too hard on its own. It can be trickier when you’ve made a course that gives you a proper challenge, but it doesn’t feel great to put yourself at an intentional disadvantage just to make things interesting – even if it’s more about having fun than winning, who doesn’t want to win? This is where local multiplayer might shine, but Nintendo only provided one kart for this review so I didn’t have a chance to try PvP out as there’s no online play. At $100 per kart and the need for player two (and potentially three and four) to have their own Nintendo Switch, that makes playing multiplayer a huge investment.Those who have pets may be anxious to see how their furry friends respond to Mario racing around the room. Just like people, animals aren’t all the same, but I thought I’d share my experience with how my cat Bruce reacted.Bruce is a typical cat in the sense that she’s rarely interested by pet toys, but often very interested in stuff that isn’t for her. Mario Kart Live is no exception. She followed the kart around the entire time when I first started because she loves chasing things, especially when it seems like they are moving around on their own. It was initially common for her to step onto the course, but over time the novelty wore off and she’d chill on the sofa as I zoomed around the living room.Bruce is pretty well behaved (she doesn’t knock things over for fun, for example) so any fallen cups or knocked over items were my own doing. I actually enjoyed having her appear as an obstacle to avoid too. I love my cat and seeing her appear in-game was an amusement that never faded. But don’t worry: no pets were harmed in the making of this review.Lastly, I did consider moving her to my bedroom while I drove, but since I raced in the same room as her litter box that’s a risky decision. This is something to keep in mind for your pets as well. Where is their food/water? Where is their litter box? Where are their toys? My cat could handle my encroachment on her space but your pet may have different needs.Following in the footsteps of past Mario Kart games, Mario Kart Live has 8 different cups to complete. Like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, all cups are unlocked from the beginning, which makes sense when every course is designed by you to begin with. You can even use the same setup for every grand prix, but each cup and course still manages to have a distinct flavor and style determined by the different weather conditions, gate types, and iconic songs that are added in-game.Tracks like World 1-1 were bizarre futuristic nostalgia trips littered with 8-bit Goomba obstacles that I welcomed with open arms (and often with my front wheels). And Magikoopa Mirage stands out as an absolute favorite with Kamek swooping down to turn everything into Mirror Mode. It was wonderfully disorienting to drive through a reflection of my own home, and clever gimmicks like this helped make a single room feel far more varied.However, other track concepts fell short. For example, Freezie Frost is littered with so many Freezies they felt more like an inevitable halt to the action rather than a thrilling thing to dodge. The wind-based courses were bittersweet as well – while I loved the added challenge of being pushed left or right along the track, and found it technologically impressive, it kind of sucked to be potentially thrown into real-world objects when my AI opponents never ran that same crash risk.Attempts to bring back old favorites like Rainbow Road also felt limited by the mixed reality setting. The iconic (and often deadly) boosts were scattered throughout, but it’s hard to imagine something that could capture the sweat-inducing leaps, impossibly tight turns, and glitzy presentation I’ve come to associate with every past iteration of the course.The RC kart itself controls incredibly well. It’s not quite a one-to-one with the smoothness of traditional Mario Kart games (to be fair, it actually has to obey the laws of physics), but it’s easy to forget this is a real, physical kart when zooming through a level while looking at your screen.The fact that you can execute the iconic Mario Kart drift is a pleasant surprise, a clever trick made possible by having your on-screen kart be a digital representation of the physical one. The strength of your boost is even determined by the amount of time you drift as usual, but complex courses crammed into a smaller living space could mean a big boost of speed can easily backfire. I often found it easier to skip drifting, while normally I’d be looking for every opportunity to do it.Since Mario Kart Live doesn’t come with a real, living Lakitu to pick you up when you spin out (what a shame), avoiding crashes is usually more beneficial than going as fast as possible. I admit, it’s a bit disappointing to lose that part of Mario Kart’s usual depth, but it didn’t stop me from having fun and feeling challenged on a properly built track.What Nintendo and Velan have accomplished here is impressive, though some power-ups don’t translate quite as well to an AR format. Throwing digital Koopa Shells and dropping banana peels behaves as you’d expect, but the Bullet Bill item automatically driving you along the course isn’t much help if it steers you straight into a furniture leg. Likewise, smart steering will automatically guide you along the center of the course but since it can’t account for physical objects this aid to novice players isn’t as useful as it initially sounds.In addition to those classic power-ups that make Mario Kart Live feel right at home among other entries in the franchise, new ones like P Switches have been drawn from other Mario sources. This addition in particular fits right in as a great way to let players rack up coins, which are used to increase speed on the course and unlock cosmetics between races.Earning trophies through grand prixs will give you new radio stations, gate types, and weather conditions to use when designing your own custom courses too. The faster 150 CC and 200 CC modes are also locked behind getting five and 10 cup trophies, respectively, which are the most enticing reward offered. They increase the speed of the physical kart itself, which unfortunately means they’re practicality is tethered to the space you have available. If you’re making a small course with tighter turns, you’ll need to knock it down to as low as 50 CC, but more spacious courses can take full advantage of the breakneck speeds.Time trial mode adds an additional competitive angle. It lets you play against your own ghost to try and beat your time, or pass your Switch or controller to a friend and challenge them to beat it instead. This can be a cool hack to create an element of multiplayer with only one kart, but it still wasn’t as interesting as just doing a grand prix against AI drivers. Plus, once you put the gates away for the day, it’s unlikely you’d be able to replicate the exact same course again.The biggest drawback of Mario Kart Live in my experience has been the maintenance. I’ll admit that I don’t sweep or mop my floors enough, but between my hair, my roomates’ hair, and my cats’ hair, the kart’s wheels have quickly become visibly dirty and, more importantly, clogged by strands.The kart is relatively small and weighs only half a pound. Only the front wheels pivot to let you steer, but after just a few hours of play turning became a real challenge. I had to remove the rubber tires and painstakingly pull the hair strands out with tweezers to get it to function smoothly again. But after this pitstop and a swift sweep of my apartment, I was back on the road (at least for a while). It’s hard to expect much better from a kart like this, but it is a notable drawback in terms of playing Mario Kart Live in real-world conditions. And as cool as it is to drive under the sofa, I’ve stopped doing it altogether to avoid the risk of any additional debris.As for battery life, the kart charges with a provided USB-C cable – the same kind that powers your Nintendo Switch console. The battery lasts a few hours and takes a good while to become fully charged when dead. But it’s a decent battery length even out of the box, and as long as I charged it between play sessions it didn’t impede my racing prospects.There are some other limitations I ran into that are worth taking note of. For starters, the kart can’t handle elevation well, so you’re limited to driving on a flat floor. Nintendo claims it can be driven on carpet, and while I can’t test that out on my hardwood floor, I can confirm that moving from floor to rug is a no go (that may be due to the slightly elevated bump between them, but it didn’t work well regardless).Another small nuisance is the fact that you need to weigh down the cardboard gates – crashing into them can otherwise make them spin out and potentially render your course undrivable since it uses the gates as AR markers to keep track of the layout. If you don’t hit the gates you can get away with a lazier setup, but having done it a few times I can say I don’t recommend leaving them unweighted.So while making courses is a blast, it’s also cumbersome and time-consuming. Whether or not needing to set up and tear down courses every time you play is a positive or negative will be entirely dependent on how much energy you’re willing to exert and how much of an inconvenience you find it to race behind your housemates’ ankles while they do dishes. Three-fourths of my housemates are gamers, and all four understand my job/interest in games, so it thankfully didn’t bother any of us. But this could easily be a point of frustration in some households, especially in a smaller space – and doubly so since Mario Kart Live can’t be played outside if don’t have Wi-Fi outdoors (and Nintendo doesn’t recommend it even if you do).
FIFA 21 Legacy Edition (Switch) Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/fifa-21-legacy-edition-switch-review|Last year, I had this to say about FIFA 19’s gameplay on Nintendo Switch:“FIFA 20’s moment-to-moment gameplay remains, disappointingly, largely completely unchanged from last year’s under-par outing. Still running on EA’s Ignite engine (last used on the PS4/Xbox/PC version for FIFA 16), it simply can’t compete with the fluidity of movement and authentically animated players the Frostbite-powered versions display [...] All in all, FIFA 20’s gameplay on Switch appears to have been largely neglected when compared to last year, and especially when compared to its big brother.”
Super Mario Bros. 35 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/super-mario-bros-35-review|Super Mario Bros. 35 is the battle royale game I didn't know I needed in my life. For whatever the reason, I never got around to playing Tetris 99, but when Super Mario Bros. 35 was released, I was on the eShop downloading it within minutes. My entire gaming life has been leading up to this experience, and Super Mario Bros. 35 forced me to rethink my approach to a game I've played countless times, because there are other people in it now. That experience alone endeared Super Mario Bros. 35 to me, but stoking the fire of my competitiveness is what kept me hooked. That being said, I definitely saw diminishing returns as I approached hour eight of my playtime over the past weekend.The premise is simple: you play Super Mario Bros. You know, the game pretty much everyone on the entire planet has played? The one they packed in with the Nintendo Entertainment System? That one. But now you’re playing against 34 other players of varying levels of skill, trying to knock them out, winnowing down the field until only you, the rightful winner, claim victory.It’s not as simple as you probably think, though. On my first match, I ran as fast as I could through level 1-1, avoiding enemies and power-ups in an attempt to beat the clock. This is wrong. While time management is important, speeding alone isn't how you win. That's one thing I really liked about my early experience with Super Mario Bros. 35: the extra systems layered on top of the original meant I had to build a strategy from scratch. You need to strike a balance between speed, collecting coins to fill your item roulette wheel (each spin costs 20 coins), and collecting power-ups and defeating enemies to increase your time meter.You're given five choices on where you want your defeated enemies to go: the right stick lets you pick random, player with the most coins, player with the least amount of time remaining, or players who’ve sent you enemies recently. The left stick lets you select whichever player you want. I use the left stick to my advantage quite a lot, selecting a player in a particularly tricky level and spamming them with enemies to knock them out when they’re at their most vulnerable. I like being able to have some control over where my wave of defeated foes end up, and used strategically, it's a great way to ruin someone else's run by overwhelming them with enemies.Super Mario Bros. 35 made me rethink my entire approach to Super Mario Bros.Defeating enemies also gives you a time bonus, depending on how you defeat it. For example, shooting an enemy with a fireball gives you a mere extra second; jumping on it gives you two seconds – but if you bounce off and land on another enemy you’ll get three seconds. You can chain the bounces to keep adding more and more time (the highest I've gotten is 11). If you already have the Fire Flower and you collect another, that's 10 seconds extra. Defeating Bowser is another 10 seconds added – and it sends Bowser to someone else's level to make it extra annoying for them. This is a great touch because it lets you turn lemons into lemonade. If I'm in level 1-2, for example, and I'm getting the brunt of someone's defeated foes, I can turn that crisis into an opportunity to load up my timer.Defeating enemies to increase the time meter is another way Super Mario Bros. 35 made me rethink my entire approach to Super Mario Bros. Rather than running past the goombas trapped between columns in 1-2, I jump on every single one of them. I'm more likely to send a koopa shell flying into enemies to rack up the extra time than I traditionally have been. Where an overwhelming deluge of goombas would initially cause anxiety, I now see them as an opportunity to max out my time meter.It took me a few games to realize how important coins and time are early on. I developed a strategy where I’d spend the majority of my run banking time and coins, which helps enormously when it comes down to just you and one other player remaining. Experimenting and figuring this out without an on-screen prompt or Pro-Tip dialogue is the kind of thing I live for. I can't speak to anyone else's strategy, but this is what works for me, and just discovering a method to gain a competitive advantage is enormously satisfying.When you're down to the final five competitiors Super Mario Bros. 35 shines.Getting to the final five competitors sounds the alarm, quite literally: the classic "almost out of time" melody plays and the music tempo speeds up, as if it weren't already stressful enough to try to navigate the playfield. This is where Super Mario 35 shines. I have played many matches where it came down to me and one other player, and it usually becomes a battle of attrition. The final two matchup sometimes lasts longer than the time it took to knock out the other 33, and it can get unbelievably stressful. Even the earliest castles become a challenge when they're filled with enemies that wouldn't otherwise be there. I've come in second place more than once because I panicked and missed a jump or made some other boneheaded move. All of this extra pressure makes seizing victory a phenomenal rush and losing a fantastic disappointment – and its kept me coming back again and again.But that’s a double-edged sword... or whatever has two edges in the Mushroom Kingdom. On the one hand, at first I always felt the need to play just one more round, regardless of whether I came in first or second or even lower. But on the other hand, holy cow am I sick of world 1-1. At the onset of each match, you can vote for a level to start with and I think I can count on one finger the times it wasn't world 1-1. Please friends, I beg of you, pick a different start level. We can't keep going on like this.I also can't quite figure out how the levels work once you're actually playing. It's not like traditional Super Mario Bros., where clearing 1-4 takes you to 2-1. In fact, sometimes clearing 1-4 takes you… to 1-1. Sometimes clearing 3-2 takes you back to 1-1. Even the famous warp zone at the end of 1-2 has been switched up, so instead of the normal world selections you get a random assortment of levels and on more than one occasion 1-1 is in the mix. According to the stage select screen, I've cleared World 1-1 136 times. That's too many, and over twice as many clears as the next most-played level, World 1-2.The repetition of the early levels in Super Mario Bros. 35 definitely makes it feel less super.This repetition of the early levels in Super Mario Bros. 35 definitely makes it feel less super. After winning another round last night, I didn't feel that same urgency to return to try and get a back-to-back win. I was feeling burned out and somewhat disinterested in running through 1-1 and 1-2 for the umpteenth time. There's no thrill at all in unlocking new levels when you know you're rarely going to see them, if at all.There are daily challenges, like "Defeat 30 enemies with a shell in 35-player battle," as well as a Special Battle that just adds a few different conditions to a set playlist of levels, so it does very little to change things up. For example, you might start with 100 coins and a magic mushroom and run through levels 1-1 through 1-4. That's it.But, similar to battle royale powerhouses PUBG or Fortnite, the prize for winning is the satisfaction of a job well done. That's it. Oh, you get coins and points to level up, sure, but they don't really change anything the next time you play. Coins earned from winning can be used to buy power-ups at the start of a new match, but I have over 8,000 coins at this point and the Fire Flower (which is the only power-up you would reasonably want anyway) costs a mere 50. Leveling up gets you new icons to slap on your user profile, but other players only see those at the end of their match.I'm not trying to downplay the thrill of victory here. It is enormously satisfying to outwit and outlive your opponents. It's downright cathartic, especially when you're up against someone of equal skill and standing, each second feeling like an hour of pure stress. But that's it. I'm mostly okay with that, but it sure would be nice if I could show off just how much I've won, if only to strike a little twinge of respect and fear in my competitors when they see me coming.
Paradise Killer Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/paradise-killer-review|Disclaimer: Former IGN host Alysia Judge worked on Paradise Killer, providing the voice of Judge.Detective stories are almost always centred around the search for proof: that key bit of evidence, that slip-up in testimony, that missing cornerstone which holds together the rest of the story they’ve been searching to understand. But, if we’re honest, actually proving things isn’t really the detective’s job – they find evidence, piece it together, and present what they believe to be a plausible truth. It’s not proof so much as the confident suggestion that it could be proof. It’s a subtle distinction, and one that Paradise Killer understands intimately – and, as its credits rolled, I realised the entire game is about that distinction. Well, that and a demonic pleasure-world of ritual sacrifice performed to satiate the psychic energy-lust of unknowable, goat-headed cosmic entities. It’s about that too.To be simplistic about it, Paradise Killer is something like a visual novel exploded into the structure of an open world game. It borrows much from Japanese mystery games, most notably the Ace Attorney and Danganronpa series, but eschews their carefully unfolded, mostly linear whodunnits for a fully explorable (and initially overwhelming) first-person investigation across a near-deserted island, ending in a trial at which you present the story you believe to be the correct one.You play Lady Love Dies (which might be the least strange name on offer here), an immortal “investigation freak” who was exiled from Paradise 3 million days ago, and is only invited to return after a locked-room murder spree forces the island’s egoless arbiter of justice to bring in the only person deemed capable of solving the crime. Oh, and you get back from exile by skydiving from a mile-high plinth suspended above the actual game map while the opening credits roll.Yes, Paradise Killer is weird, with an aesthetic that can probably be best described as “Vaporwave Satanism” – imagine a neon sign covered in gouts of blood, and you’re on the way there. Among its best tricks is that it doesn’t just force you to piece together its mystery after the fact, but the workings of its entire world. People still act like people (and lie like people), but how does detective work change in a universe where ghosts can exist, gods can be imprisoned, and taxis can open transdimensional rifts? You’re essentially running two investigations: one building a case in your head, and the other building the world in which it took place.That also means that telling you too much about that world would spoil some of the fun, but at its most basic level: you’re on an island, Paradise, built like a beautiful holiday destination, but actually created to offer ritual human sacrifices to gods from beyond the galaxy, run by The Syndicate, a group of immortals hiding in a pocket dimension beyond the reach of humanity. Honestly, that’s the basics. It’s one of the more compulsively unique fictional words I’ve come across in recent years – enough so that I’d welcome a sequel out of interest for that setting alone.As Lady Love Dies, you travel the island entirely at your own discretion and pace, investigating its jarring mix of 3D architecture and 2D populace, combing for clues left behind at crime scenes, wrenching testimony out of old friends, and generally making a nuisance of yourself, as any investigator should. The beauty of that open-ended approach becomes apparent very quickly – the first piece of evidence you find, which can more or less be anything, will inevitably point you to another clue, which might offer a different line of conversation with one of many wild suspects (who range from married ex-assassins, to a horny Scottish doctor living on a yacht). That conversation might, in turn, break the alibi of someone else, or even open up an entirely new sub-case, promising brand new mysteries to find. The pleasure of unspooling a blood-drenched, twisting story behind the crime you set out to solve is only increased by the fact that you’re more in charge of how that crime’s solved than almost any other detective game I can think of.The world you travel through to do that is almost equally fascinating, a mixture of the mundane and the bizarre slotted together seamlessly. Climb humble apartment blocks to hunt for hidden clues, or the many collectible Relics that offer glimpses at what this grim world once was, and you’ll stare across a landscape dotted with blood donation points, grotesque statuary, and pyramids jutting out from an endless sea. In an unexpected twist, Paradise Killer is also a platformer of sorts, asking you not just to travel the island, but work out how to in some cases - even offering unlockable double jumps and other abilities to help you find its most inaccessible corners.You’re not travelling towards an ending, as such, more a culmination – you can begin the murder trial that closes the story at any time after its introductory sequence. The best comparison I can think of, weirdly, is in how you can take on Dragon’s Dogma’s final boss at any time, with almost no impediments put in place to stop you from doing so – it would likely be absolutely terrible to do it too early, but you can if you want to. But that element of choice in when to stop also lends Paradise Killer its greatest air of mystery – you’re never told when you’re done, you simply have to intuit whether there could be more clues out there that you’re yet to find. Are you confident enough to make your case on what you have, or will you keep scouring the island for more?Unfortunately, that air of mystery gives way to Paradise Killer’s only real point of frustration. After around 10 hours of exploration, clues begin to dwindle, suspects have less and less to say and, without being able to effectively revisit any hints they may have offered, you can simply be left to trudge across a near-empty island for several more hours, looking for a glimmer of possibility based on nothing else than a hunch. Yes, that sounds authentically like a detective story, but in practice it can get pretty dull – in reality, you’re likely to start the final trial because you’re a bit bored of fast-travelling to areas you’ve already scoured, rather than because you have steadfast conviction in your conclusions.But no matter how you get there, that trial sequence itself is the jewel in Paradise Killer’s crown. For obvious reasons, I won’t discuss its story contents, but the structure is wonderful – an hour-plus long riff on Ace Attorney’s trial sequences, seeing you accuse suspects and then present your collected evidence to back up those assertions. Except, in Paradise Killer, there’s no truly wrong answer.While there is a set backstory to be unravelled, it can be interpreted in different ways – the evidence I’ve collected might support one side, and the evidence you collect might support another, and the trial can account for both assertions. That’s not to mention the potential for corruption, as you could purposely accuse the wrong person to save an obviously guilty character you grew to like along the way, or just throw someone under the bus for no reason other than an evil whim. The characters who survive – of course there’s a death penalty – can be wildly different depending on any given playthrough.Paradise Killer has no narrator in place to tell you the “true” story of what happened, and you’re never told if the actions you take – at any point – are right or wrong. You live as Lady Love Dies up until the bitter end, and your conclusions, whatever they end up being, are hers too, shaping the outcome of your time in Paradise. This is, in essence, a first-person game in more than physical viewpoint. It’s a truly bold storytelling choice, and one that makes Paradise Killer feel more authentically detective-like than almost any game of its kind.
Inertial Drift Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/inertial-drift-review|Screaming sideways through the long, arcing bends of Snow Mountain Sprint, my front tires flirted incessantly with the densely packed snow at the side of the road, but such is the precision of the controls that they never so much as kissed. My first few events in arcade racer Inertial Drift were joyfully effortless, as I threw my car sideways around corner after corner. It makes a great first impression, but beyond the initial rush of unadulterated, high-speed thrills, it soon reveals itself to also have enough depth to go the distance.My first races, you see, were in Edward’s Terra Dart, an easy to handle sporty number with all the depth of a paper bag but, crucially, the perfect vehicle to introduce Inertial Drift’s twin stick controls. Yes, in this racer, you steer with the left stick, but control your car’s drift with the right. This allows you to make separate adjustments on the fly to manipulate the angle of your car as you drift while also shifting it left or right on track, letting you hold the perfect line on basically any curve or glide neatly through any corner. It’s a game changer.The Dart is the purest, simplest expression of this. You can basically just jam down the accelerator, and attack each corner with twin-sticked abandon. And if you need to hit a really aggressive angle? A tap on the brake will swing the back end out further.Edward’s Dart, however, is just the beginning. Each vehicle in Inertial Drift’s roster feels distinct and requires a specific approach to master. Ibba’s HPE Dragon, for instance, demands that you brake ahead of tight turns before starting to drift in order to hit the right line and maintain momentum. You can then take advantage of its high acceleration to power out of the corner. Riku’s Venom Industries Ventus will only enter a lazy, lightly angled slide with the drift stick engaged; instead it's the brake that's the primary way to get sharper angles through corners. Corey’s HPE Katana, on the other hand, is all about feathering the accelerator as you slide, finessing the drift stick to find the right angle. Break during a slide with that car and it straightens up.There are just so many extremes to appreciate across the 16 car line-up. Seth’s Coda Supreno is extremely slow building up speed, which means every mistake is costly, but it's the fastest car in the game when it gets going. It's thrilling learning how to ease off the accelerator and find precisely the right drifting line to maintain momentum through turns. Gunner’s Roton 7D, meanwhile, has a stack of raw power and drifts on the brake, so feels super twitchy, swinging out wide at the lightest touch. It’s difficult to get a feel for, particularly on sharp corners that can leave you spinning out entirely if not deftly handled. And then there’s Samira’s HPE Jester, which doesn’t want to grip ever. It’s all drifting, all the time.As you’ve no doubt noted, each car is tied to a specific character, and you’ll get to know this cast as you progress through the Story mode. Playing through Inertial Drift’s story four times – once for each of the selectable characters – gave me a really good taste of what its racing mechanics have to offer, and cleverly uses its dialogue and challenges to teach lessons about how each car handles. Ibba, for instance, won’t be able to post a good enough lap time on City Skylink unless he – and by extension, you – takes Viv’s advice to heart about why sometimes you need to brake to go faster. The challenges here are geared towards making you a better driver, and as I worked my way through the events in each destination I certainly became that.While the story itself is of no real consequence, its execution is refreshing. There is no testosterone here – no high stakes feuds between hotshot drivers with impossibly large egos. Instead, we largely have a cast of earnest racing enthusiasts – people of all stripes who want to share their love of racing, help each other out, and improve. It’s endearing, really, whether you’re playing as Edward, who only wants to have fun but discovers that with practice he has the chops to be competitive, or Viv, who is the racer to beat, but also humble enough to know she has more to learn.It provides a backdrop to some absolutely gripping racing – all, essentially, against the clock, as even when you’re directly racing another character, your car safely phases through theirs instead of bumping. And all, I should also add, from a chase cam view – something that I typically never use in arcade racers, much preferring to be low to the ground and in first person. Thankfully, the cars actually look great on track in Inertial Drift and the sense of speed is still very real, even from that vantage point.The Story mode only encompasses five destinations, but each is gratifyingly distinct. City Skylink, for instance, feels completely different from Sunset Sea Circuit. The former is a city course with wide freeways, long, curving tunnels and technical street sections, whereas the latter takes you from the beach up into the mountains as you hurtle along narrow, sweeping roads, zig zag through a downhill slalom, and screech around a series of switchbacks.My favourite course, however, is Mount Kirino, a five-or-so-minute point to point race with winding mountain roads, an epic corkscrew that lets you hold a drift seemingly forever, large, sweeping switchbacks, rapid S bends and oh so much speed. And along the way you’ll go from the ski fields, where chairlifts are silhouetted against the night sky, through an ancient forest lit by lanterns and studded by impossibly large trees, down mountain slopes with purple-hued stars and a sliver of moon dominating the screen, and then at last a cityscape appears like a mirage in the distance while you careen along a series of ridges. I’m not in love with Inertial Drift’s cel-shaded, vaporwave aesthetic in general, but it certainly has its moments.The courses in the Story mode are only a slice of what is available elsewhere. There are 20 course configurations in all, spanning point to point races and circuits, and including both forward and reverse options. If you want to practice these other options you’ll need to hop into the Arcade mode, where you can also test your mettle against the fastest times posted by players around the world. This is fine, but I really enjoyed the context and challenges provided by Story mode, so it’s a shame finishing a character’s story doesn’t open up a Story mode+ which lets you do all the courses in reverse, or perhaps offers up a different selection entirely. (There is, however, an option to choose “Xtra Crispy” when starting a new story save, which offers up harder targets and faster opponents, but the same courses.)That said, Arcade mode is definitely useful in order to familiarise yourself with specific courses before heading into the Grand Prix mode. Each car/racer has a custom grand prix to complete, and it pays to be familiar with each event, as you only have three second chances to clear the full set. The Challenges are also quite cool – there’s one of these for all the extra cars that can be unlocked, which then lets you take them into other modes. And for fans of same screen action, in addition to online multiplayer, Inertial Drift also features two player splitscreen.
Spellbreak Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/spellbreak-review|Standing out from the pack is harder than ever in an ever-more crowded battle royale genre. The kings of this particular hill are already free-to-play on a variety of platforms with years of updates and refinements under their belts, but the team at Proletariat may be onto something that can make a mark with Spellbreak. It’s pretty magical.Matches are quick and full of action, and that’s due in no small part to the fact that everyone begins with a pre-selected duo of powers from wearable class gauntlets. The Pyromancer, for example, can shoot fireballs and summon a wall of flames, whereas the Stoneshaper can send tremors through the ground to hit enemies and hurl giant boulders. It all feels very Avatar: The Last Airbender and I mean that in the best way possible. In total, there are already six total classes and they offer a ton of variety.At first it was a bit jarring to not aim down the sights of an assault rifle as I peeked around corners, but to instead fling myself into the air while tossing fireballs. Once you get used to it, though, and put in a bit of practice, it feels buttery smooth, like second nature. (I’m sure I’m in for a short few rounds next time I go back to PUBG as I readjust to something closer to realism.) Spending as little time on the ground as possible can give you a huge advantage in combat since even if they miss you can still take splash damage from the ground around you if you’re near it.Cosmetics are actually handled pretty fairly here. Just by leveling up your rank in each of the classes you start to unlock aerial smoke trails when you’re dropping, name plates, badges, emotes, and more. But for the limited-time epic and rare outfits or special emotes other than basic waves, you’ve got to pay the Gold price -- that currency can either be earned slowly or purchased outright with real money. You can buy 600 gold for $5, 2,800 gold for $25, and so on, so you get a little more than 100 gold per $1 spent. This makes extra fancy Epic Outfits cost around $10-15, which is reasonable. Emotes and less rare outfits are just a few dollars in most cases. Wisely, Proletariat has thus far ensured that Gold can only be used to buy cosmetics and not ranks or other items, so there’s no way to buy more power. It’s also worth noting that at the time of this writing there is no Battle Pass available. Finally, a section of the menu called “Chapters” is greyed out -- although the developers have indicated this will be used to deliver the lore bits.
Helheim Hassle Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/helheim-hassle-review|Helheim Hassle feels like a descendant of Blizzard’s 1992 puzzle-platforming classic, The Lost Vikings, but instead of there being multiple vikings with unique skills to switch between, there’s just one viking who can separate into multiple manouvrable body parts in order to overcome each environmental obstacle. With a neatly evolving set of puzzle mechanics and an hilariously offbeat cast of characters to meet along the way, Helheim Hassle is a consistently enjoyable adventure that’s only tripped up slightly by a limb-switching control system that is too frequently all thumbs.
Fantasy Strike Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/fantasy-strike-review|One of the questions I’m sometimes asked by friends is what the best entry-level fighting game is for someone who is new to the genre, but who also doesn’t want to spend hours in a training mode or immediately get completely blown up when they play online. My answer is generally, “such a game doesn’t exist, but the closest you’ll get is probably Fantasy Strike.”Fantasy Strike is a fun, easy to play fighting game with simple controls, tight and strategic fighting mechanics, a well rounded cast of 12 unique fighters, and some wonderful innovations in the genre that I wish other, bigger franchises would take note of. Visually, it’s very bland and lacks its own unique personality, but if you look beyond that, you’ll find one of the most daringly different fighting games of the last decade – not to mention it’s free-to-play, has great netcode, and full crossplay support between PC, PS4, and Nintendo Switch.Fantasy Strike throws the basic rules behind most fighting games out the window, instead writing its own with the goal of making things as intuitive and accessible as a traditional fighting game can possibly be. You can’t crouch, which eliminates all high/low mix-ups; the life bars are broken up into segmented chunks of HP, so you always have a clear idea of how many more hits are needed to win or lose; your super meter fills up automatically; there are no complicated input commands; you can counter throws by just standing completely still. The list goes on and on, resulting in a very distinct flavor of a familiar whole.Fantasy Strike uses a three button fighting system with each character largely sharing the same basic input commands for each of their moves. While on the ground, every character has three A attacks, one B, one C, and one super. While in the air they also have one attack for each button along with an aerial specific super as well. This makes it very easy to jump between and learn new characters, which is great because online ranked play requires you to create a three person team.Despite the similar movelists, these characters all play dramatically different from each other, even those within the same archetype. Jaina, for instance, is a zoner who can fill the field with projectiles, but can also be incredibly nasty up close with some very tricky cross ups and respectable damage. Argagarg on the other hand, despite also being a zoner, focuses on poisoning his opponent and utilizing his projectiles to push his adversaries away and keep the poison active. Every character in Fantasy Strike feels like they have something unbelievably powerful that only they can do, which makes the entire roster very fun to play and also satisfyingly challenging to play against.Even beyond the simplified inputs, one other area of accessibility that Fantasy Strike absolutely excels at is using visual cues to tell you everything you need to know about the properties of a move. You’ll never wonder why you got hit by something, or be confused as to how to counter a specific move. When enemies glow blue, they have armor; when they glow white, their attack is invulnerable; when they get you with a command grab, big bold letters appear that say “Jumpable,” letting you know that you could have jumped to avoid getting hit; when you see blue sparks after an attack is blocked, you have frame advantage; when you see red sparks after an attack is blocked, it’s punishable. It’s all incredibly intuitive, and the stuff that isn’t outright taught in its excellent intro tutorial is easy enough to pick up on with experience.There are so many design choices present to make things easy and accessible that you would think the depth of the gameplay would suffer as a result, but surprisingly, it doesn’t. Fantasy Strike successfully manages to lower the skill floor of all of its characters without ever dropping the skill ceiling, and it does so not only through excellent design of its movesets and character archetypes, but also by giving players the right tools to understand those movesets and archetypes.Embedded within Fantasy Strike are excellent spotlight videos for each character that go over everything one would need to know in order to be competent with that character. These videos are short, comprehensive, and most importantly, they’re presented in a way that makes it very easy to understand complex concepts like set-ups, cross ups, frame traps, and more. Within just an hour or so, I already felt comfortable enough with a character to jump online and start having competitive matches. After a few of those, I was on my way to winning my first ranked mini-tournament. These kinds of tutorial videos are absolutely something that should be standard among future fighting games.As good as all of this is, there’s no getting around Fantasy Strike’s bland style. Its roster, while very mechanically interesting, are among the most boring character designs I’ve played in a modern fighting game. Rook is just a stone golem with no distinguishing characteristics; Setsuki is a kunoichi with rainbow hair that feels randomly colored in with a paint bucket tool; and Grave is the prototypical Ryu-style character who just wants to improve and fight strong opponents, just to name a few.These boring looking fighters aren’t helped by a weak arcade mode that does very little to give them any much needed personality and is hampered by inconsistent voice acting throughout. Looks aren’t everything of course, but when the competition even among indie fighting games includes gorgeous options like Skullgirls, Under Night In-Birth, and Them’s Fightin’ Herds, Fantasy Strike’s isn’t even in the same league on the audio/visual side.For the solo players, in addition to arcade mode, there’s also a daily challenge mode, a standard survival mode, and an interesting twist on a Boss Rush mode that throws all concerns about character balance out the window by rewarding you for each victory with your choice of an incredibly overpowered perk after each fight. What’s great is that many of these power ups are specific to each character and designed to either cover their inherent weaknesses or ridiculously enhance their strengths. In one Boss Rush run, I had a Rook that could deal 6 damage off of a standard throw by just the third round, basically allowing him to one-hit KO a lower health enemy as soon as I got my hands on them. It’s an amusing distraction, but not one I felt the need to come back to after a few runs.Fantasy Strike’s actually been around since 2017 as a Steam Early Access game, but as of July 21, 2020 it became completely free to play with the full roster of 12 characters available immediately. That’s unprecedented in a genre where other free-to-play games lock most of their characters behind some sort of pay wall, and it truly makes Fantasy Strike the best entry point for newcomers interested in fighting games. You won’t get access to the single-player modes like Arcade, Boss Rush, or Survival without paying at least $20 for the Core Version, but you’ll still be able to access Fantasy Strike’s full suite of training modes, and most importantly, you’ll be able to play online in both casual and competitive playlists. However, if you’re playing for free, you won't have access to local versus multiplayer, and you won’t be able to start a private room with another person unless at least one of you owns a paid for version, which is a humongous bummer even in spite of all that Fantasy Strike offers for free.Instead of charging for characters, developer Sirlin Games has introduced a very unusual subscription service called Fantasy+ that gives players access to special Master level costumes that can’t be purchased in the shop, XP boosts on all characters (which is just a show of how experienced you are with a character and opens up the Master costumes at level 20), and access to Replay Theater. Replay Theater is the star here, and it is actually a pretty fantastic innovation on how players are able to view recorded matches, and though it doesn’t quite justify a $5 per month premium fee, it is a great perk for those who want to show support for the developers who are offering a substantial amount of value by keeping the whole roster free to play.Many fighting games have the ability to rewatch your own matches and replays of high level matches, but with Replay Theater, you can actually filter what you want to see based upon the rank of the players and the specific characters used in the match. You can even set the filter so you can watch only matches of one specific character vs another, which is super helpful if you find yourself having trouble with a particular matchup and want to see how high level players deal with it.
Carrion Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/carrion-review|For anyone who’s ever watched a monster movie and thought “Hey, it would be pretty cool to be that monster,” the premise of Carrion is immediately appealing. It’s a power fantasy that has you going an utter rampage through an underground facility, terrorizing both armed and unarmed inhabitants along the way. Developer Phobia Game Studio is uncompromising in its approach to making Carrion as true to this fantasy as possible, and it makes for a game unlike any I’ve played thanks to a collection of truly excellent moments. Even when the novelty of grabbing a helpless scientist and slamming them all around a room, Hulk-style, wore off, Carrion’s puzzles and cerebral combat encounters still kept me thoroughly entertained. The monotony that lurks between them, however, is the real monster.If there’s one thing that Carrion nails, it’s the movement and abilities of its leading amorphous, multi mouthed, tentacled monstrosity. The monster has total freedom of movement, with its appendages automatically shooting out and pulling it toward whatever direction you point it in. It’s delightfully creepy to watch and there’s a great speed and fluidity to its movements, which is important because hit-and-run tactics are crucial when dealing with the more dangerous weapon-wielding enemies you’ll encounter.You can control one of your tentacles via the right stick and grab either enemies or pieces of the environment with the right trigger. Enemies can be consumed for health and extra biomass, or slammed and tossed around like rag dolls; bits of the environment can be hurled across the room; and doors can be ripped right from their hinges. It’s hard not to crack a devilish smile when you’re able to creep down on an enemy from the ceiling, quickly pull them up, eat their top half, and drop their lower half down for the rest of the people in the room to freak out about.As you progress through the underground facility, you’ll unlock strains of DNA that add new abilities to your repertoire, such cloaking, growing blades and charging through barricades, and most notably, parasitically controlling a human. In typical Metroidvania fashion, these abilities typically have both a combat use and a navigational use, and every time you get a new ability you’ll be able to explore previously closed-off sections of the map.The best Metroidvanias manage to hide worthwhile upgrades and secrets to encourage backtracking and exploration whenever you get a new ability. This is one pro tip Carrion doesn’t follow in that there are only nine mostly useless, optional upgrades. Worse still, searching for them is a nightmare because of how easy it is to get lost. There’s no map to consult, no reminder of your current objective, and no waypoint or hint system to guide you. At one point I backtracked to access a previously blocked off area, only to find that all it did was provide a useless shortcut. Then I found myself hopelessly lost in a cleaned-out facility for an absolutely miserable two or so hours of aimless wandering.On my second playthrough, I could see that there is a fairly cleanly laid-out path to follow to get from main objective to main objective, but any deviation from that path makes it very hard to find your way back because you don’t know what those main objectives are. Just to illustrate how much of an issue this was, my first blind playthrough took about six hours. My second took a little over two.It’s worth repeating that the actual moment-to-moment gameplay of Carrion is excellent. There are some very cleverly laid-out encounters that offer a ton of freedom in terms of how you literally pick apart your prey, and while it’s pretty easy early on, in the later bits it ups the ante significantly with armored mechs, fast drones that can rip you to shreds, and flamethrower-wielding soldiers who will have you rushing to the nearest body of water if they manage to set you on fire.As far as the story goes, there isn’t much of one to speak of, but that actually works in Carrion’s favor. From the start until the end, the perspective never shifts away from the monster, outside of a couple of quick flashback sequences that provide some context for its origin. That makes it kind of a fun and unique way to experience the increasingly dire state of your human adversaries, as presented through emergency bulletins and LED signs.
Panzer Paladin Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/panzer-paladin-review|I'm a sucker for a retro aesthetic, which is why I was immediately drawn to Panzer Paladin the first time I laid eyes on it at PAX East 2019. Now, there's no shortage of retro-inspired, action-platforming games "with a twist" paying homage to that good old NES vibe, but few go so far as Panzer Paladin does to make it feel like some mysterious, unreleased NES game seen only in a small blurb in Nintendo Power's Pak Watch section. The novel mechanics of Panzer Paladin stand on their own, but it's the way it captures so much of the excitement of that era of gaming, without the downsides, that truly makes it great.Video game storytelling has come a long way in the decades since the 8- and 16-bit eras, but Panzer Paladin isn’t really interested in any of that. No, the only emotional response it’s going for is the warm dopamine rush of pure nostalgia. Its story is simple: meteors full of weapons have crashed on Earth and evil beings are flooding the globe, fed by the nefarious energy of these dark magic-infused weapons of war. How do you get more video game than “bad guys fell from space so let’s shoot’em!”?As ridiculous as the story of a cyborg named Flame piloting a mech named Grit to beat back the forces of an all-powerful dark magic is, it never winks or nods, but somehow never takes itself too seriously either. It sets the perfect tone for the gameplay, and the story plays out in animated cutscenes that would be right at home in any legendary anime of the series, such as Bubblegum Crisis or one of the dozen or so Gundam series over the years.Beating the 6-hour campaign rewarded me with one of my favorite parts of 1980s gaming: an extended cutscene. Sure, today we have cutscenes that play out over the span of an hour or more on occasion (looking at you, Kojima), but back then, games like Ninja Gaiden and their microscopic memory sizes meant these dramatic moments were rationed out over the course of your playthrough. The final, extra-long (meaning a few minutes) cutscene felt like a reward for your hard work, and Panzer Paladin revives this lost experience.Apart from its awesome anime-as-hell cutscenes, Panzer Paladin evokes so many old-school gaming memories that I'm sure there are a million obscure ones I didn't even pick up on. Nods to the NES library abound, but never feel overt or forced. When you beam into a new level, you exit your floating base of operations in a scene straight out of the (criminally underrated) NES version of Strider.You pilot Grit in the main levels, but you can push the "minus" button on the Switch and jump out and run around as Flame any time, a la Blaster Master. In fact, there are secrets and sections of each level where you have to play as Flame, who swings from a whip in a confluence of Bionic Commando and the Castlevania series. Moving through the second half is reminiscent of Wily's castle in Mega Man 2. Certain enemies, when hit, make the exact same noise as the tinny, pinging ricochet effect from Contra. I'm not talking about a close approximation, either: to my ears, trained on decades of NES Contra playthroughs, it's the same exact sound. It's almost an old-school overload, but somehow it never felt like I was being hit over the head to show off its bonafides.Difficulty is also old-school, but only in the good way: thankfully developer Tribute Games added in checkpoints to the levels so you don't lose all your progress when you fail the fifth white-knuckle challenge in a row. Well, at least not right away. While there is a generously placed checkpoint before each boss battle, if you run out of lives without beating the boss it's back to the start. There are also only two checkpoints between levels, and sometimes reaching that first checkpoint can feel like a long and arduous haul. There was more than one occasion when I died through my own stupidity before I reached the first or second checkpoint, which set me back a long way. That didn't feel great.When I say it was my own stupidity, I mean it. Like the best old-school games, Panzer Paladin doesn't do cheap hits. The controls between Grit and Flame feel really different, but they're both manageable and so the few times I missed a jump or landed in a pit of insta-death lava, it was because my stupid fingers just didn't listen to my brain.One of the coolest ideas Panzer Paladin has is its novel approach to weapons: they don’t last forever. As unpopular as the concept of breakable weapons can be, here it's a required part of how you play, and there’s actually something good that comes of losing your favorite weapon. Holding down the shoulder buttons breaks your current weapon, unleashing a spell, giving you a buff or flat-out raining bolts of lightning from the sky. There are defensive and offensive spells, as well as spells to heal Grit and absorb health from enemies, among others.I didn't realize initially how important all of this was, especially when facing bosses. I struggled to defeat the first few, but once I got the hang of applying the proper buffs and offensive spells during the fights, they became much less daunting. For example, breaking a weapon and casting "wings" on Grit let me float around the battlefield to both avoid ground attacks and get into position to deal out damage to when the boss was otherwise unreachable. Breaking half a dozen weapons to heal in the heat of battle happened more than once. The "Absorb" spell made quick work of a screen full of summoned minions, freeing me up to focus on attacking the boss instead of avoiding all the annoying enemies rushing me. In fact, hoarding weapons increases your dark magic levels, which then makes bosses even more difficult. Once you embrace that it’s in your best interest to break those weapons and dispel their evil ways, it all comes together.But not all weapons are doomed to be destroyed! Weapons obtained after defeating bosses are faster, stronger, much more durable, and some even have the rare "full heal" spell locked inside them. A strong boss-weapon can make short work of the next boss you face, and even the worst boss-acquired weapon is better than the dozens you pick up from random enemies along the way. You need find and collect the power-ups that refill the durability gauge on weapons for those, should you decide to keep them (I'm a fan of the Ice Pop myself).You also have choices to make about how to break them and when, because extra weapons can be traded in back at your base to increase Grit's overall life energy meter. But what I really love is the blacksmith option. Essentially, you design your own weapons of war. You have a certain number of points you can assign to your own creations, so you get to decide how durable it is, its power, and more, within the constraints of available points.Think of it like creating a character in an RPG. My favorite hellblade-creation is fast, with a great amount of damage, but comes at the cost of low durability. Better yet, you get to draw your own in a pixel-art image of it in the blacksmith menu. Actually drawing the weapon is a little cumbersome, but not overwhelming, and I was able to make a sweet looking sword. I'm 100% certain people will use the creator to make obscene weapons, but I managed to hold myself back. (As far as you know, anyway.) It’s a lot of fun seeing the weapons you create get dropped during certain mid- and late-level events.
Paper Mario: The Origami King Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/paper-mario-the-origami-king-review|With Paper Mario: The Origami King, developer Intelligent Systems has once again found a clever new angle from which to explore its spinoff papercraft universe, pitting Mario against an army of origami adversaries who are hell-bent on bringing him into their fold. It has also revamped the series’ gameplay, shifting combat away from single-use stickers and cards and replacing the classic flat combat plane with a circular arena. While there’s plenty of charm here, there isn’t much meat to the mechanics, leaving players without many meaningful choices to make.The Origami King gets off to a good start, introducing the folded fiend King Olly as its villain. It’s a change that frees up Bowser and his minions to play a much more zany role, and for Intelligent Systems to deliver a more intriguing Mario story in general. The overall structure is exactly what you’d expect, however. King Olly has swaddled Peach’s castle with streamers, turning it into a Christo-esque prison, and Mario must find the source of each streamer and undo them to rescue the princess.Unlike the last couple of Paper Mario games, The Origami King has ditched the concept of individual levels in favour of one big overworld. This makes for a nice change, creating a better sense of continuity as you trek up into the mountains from Toad Town or ship out to sea. At the same time, your progression is still largely linear and signposted – you’ll only ever have access to one new destination at a time, and backtracking isn’t built into the design beyond the use of Toad Town as a hub. I don’t mind this as it helps maintain forward momentum and many of the destinations are quite large, ensuring there’s plenty to do, but it’s certainly not as open as it first appears.The world puzzles are all self-contained too, which is actually a big improvement from Color Splash. There, the Thing cards you needed to make progress were hidden across the entire world, creating frustrating roadblocks. Here, you’re rewarded for being observant and logical, not for finding the right point-and-click adventure-style combination of random objects.Most puzzles are solved with a combination of jumping, hammering, and a handful of abilities that Mario’s companion – Olly’s sister Olivia – unlocks, such as accordion arms to pull or hit things that are out of reach, and folding herself into towering elemental allies to do things like raise the ground itself or refill a lake with water. Intelligent Systems ekes quite a lot out of mileage out of this streamlined moveset.If you ever find yourself stuck, be sure to check out our full Paper Mario: The Origami King Walkthrough!Exploring the world is a lot of fun, as the landscape is always changing, and The Origami King offers a steady stream of palate cleansing curveballs, like fighting a giant Pokey in the desert, steering your party through treacherous rapids or popping into a quiet cafe to debate which minions are the strongest over a cup of joe. Some of these are more fun than others, such as the Shy Guys Finish Last quiz show, which consists of a series of mini-games that are more schoolwork than anything else, but the constant variety is appreciated.You’re also generously rewarded for taking the time to check every location’s nooks and crannies, and to prod any element in the environment that seems a little out of place. This is a game brimming with secrets, and a great deal of The Origami King’s charm is wrapped up in the hundreds of Toads that Olly’s folded soldiers have scattered through the kingdom. These Toads can be almost anywhere – that butterfly? A Toad. That bonsai tree? A Toad. That scrunched-up ball of paper rocking back and forth trapped in a living hell? You’d better believe that’s a Toad.Hunting Toads is one of The Origami King’s most delightful distractions, particularly because the snippets of dialogue that ensue are almost always offbeat, charming, and oh so punny. It’s not hard to see why Intelligent Systems decided to pepper the world with these collectables: they’re a great illustration of the Paper Mario series’ effervescent, self-aware personality, which is easily its best attribute.The Toads serve as more than just comic relief. They’ll also come and watch you in battle, gradually filling the bleachers around the circular arena and allowing you to see your overall progress at a glance. The Toads in the stands can be called on by tossing out coins, and will help you by hitting enemies, tossing items, or repositioning foes. The system isn’t as multi-faceted as the audience mechanics in The Thousand-Year Door, in which you had to earn their help – and occasionally had to leap into the audience to sort out a rock-wielding enemy – but then, that criticism of relative simplicity and shallowness applies to every aspect of The Origami King’s gameplay.Every time combat begins, Mario now stands at the center of a circular grid. For each wave of enemies you have a set number of moves you can make – either rotating rings around him or sliding wedges in or out. The aim is to reposition all the enemies so that you can either headbop down a line of them or hammer a 2x2 array, as this boosts your damage.Incorporating more overt puzzles into battles is a novel idea, and as you play you’ll learn new strategies to manipulate enemies into position, but it just isn’t compelling enough to be the system that drives a more than 20-hour game. The stakes are low too. If you can’t see the solution and run out of time, well, the battle will simply take a little longer to play out. Your opponents in The Origami King don’t really pose a threat – they’re simply an inconvenience to move past.Compounding this, your toolkit to do so is super limited, with only minor differences separating the assortment of hammers and boots. Those are what you’ll attack with 95% of the time, so there are few meaningful decisions required in what to use when. If the enemies are in a line you use an attack that does damage down the line, whereas if they’re grouped in two lanes you use a hammer attack. It's not rocket science.It’s not entirely one-note: occasionally, an enemy type will come along that shakes a battle up a bit, such as ghosts that disappear before you start repositioning them, cut-out soldiers that are in a chain and need to be folded back into one figure, or Ninji that reveal themselves to be log decoys if you try and hit them with a hammer, dropping on you from above instead. I also really loved one section which took place during a big brawl, so the battlefield had a mix of folded soldiers and friendly minions. Distinct moments like these are few and far between, however, and for the most part the combat just isn’t that interesting. I was forced to defend only every so often, making the timing-based blocking less important than it has been in other Paper Mario games.Mario does also have access to a handful of items he can use in battle, but not only do these feel underwhelming in terms of power, they adhere to the same patterns as Mario’s boots and hammers when it comes to when you use them. A Fire Flower, for instance, scorches enemies down the line, while the Tail hits four enemies in – wait for it – exactly the same spread as a hammer. Only the POW block and the occasional option to use one of Olivia’s elemental attacks breaks this pattern.That said, Intelligent Systems does attempt something more involved with The Origami King’s boss battles, which turn the tables and put the boss at the centre of the arena instead of Mario. Here you must shift the panels to create a path for Mario to follow from the outer rim in, stopping by treasure chests, panels that turn on special abilities, and so on before ending on an attack icon. While these battles rely heavily on trial and error, they’re certainly more interesting than regular combat – and the cast is more memorable, too. Only a Paper Mario game can build a set of bosses around anthropomorphised papercraft tools like scissors and rubber bands.Even with this variation on the formula, however, combat is still one of The Origami King’s weakest elements, and the fact that it’s not tied to any kind of experience-based progression system makes battles even more perfunctory. Mario does grow in strength over the course of the campaign, incidentally, but it’s a nebulous process that’s tied into finding hearts that increase his max health… and also his strength. Go figure.The Origami King has several vestigial RPG elements like this. You can buy and equip accessories, for instance, but they either represent linear improvements to your capabilities in combat or are tied to things like finding secrets, getting discounts at shops, or using confetti (which gives you the ability to patch holes in the world – think the colourless spots in Color Splash). There are no real gameplay choices here either, and I always had enough coins to buy every accessory as soon as it became available without having to go out of my way to earn more.Similarly, The Origami King flirts with a party system but ultimately steers well clear of making you decide anything there, either. Instead, there are several times throughout the course of the story in which Olivia and Mario are joined by a companion, but they’re played almost strictly for story and dialogue purposes. The amnesiac Bob-omb, for instance, is entertaining company but has no abilities outside combat. And when he joins you for a fight he’s fully automated and mostly falls on his face. Literally.The second companion, Professor Toad, fares a little better: he can dig for hidden treasures as you explore the Scorching Sandpaper Desert, but he also is only with you for a short time. I can’t help but wonder what The Origami King might have been like if it had a supporting cast that also served more of a gameplay purpose.Even so, it’s clearly evident just how much love and attention has been lavished on this papercraft world. Standout locations like Shroom City take the series’ visual design to a whole new level, while its tactile aesthetic has cleverly been incorporated into puzzles and secrets throughout the entire campaign. There are so many small details to enjoy too, like the way Mario brushes himself off after taking a tumble, or the joyous expression on his face when you nail a line of jump attacks in battle.And in a broader sense, so much of what makes this game – and series – special is Intelligent Systems being comfortable taking hard lefts with a world we’re all so intimately familiar with. To give you a few examples, in this game Mario takes part in a multi-part stage production, characters break into song and dance many times, we get some genuinely funny insights into what life’s like for Bowser’s minions, and Mario cosplays as other iconic Nintendo characters. These moments are the main attractions – the sense that anything can happen, and the breezy, irreverent way in which characters deal with whatever gets thrown their way.
Deadly Premonition 2: A Blessing in Disguise Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/deadly-premonition-2-a-blessing-in-disguise-review|The original cult classic Deadly Premonition featured terrible combat, graphics that were dated on arrival in 2010, and an erratic audio mix that rendered much of its dialogue unintelligible, but it was easy to look past or even embrace its low-budget shortcomings because its eccentric cast of characters and utterly bonkers story was like no other game that many of us had ever played. Sadly its sequel, Deadly Premonition 2: A Blessing in Disguise, does not enjoy that same saving grace. It inherits many of the technical flaws of its now decade-old predecessor, but its story never manages to disturb or captivate to quite the same extent, making for a much more forgettable follow-up.The bulk of the story may take place in 2005, but Deadly Premonition 2’s visuals appear to be set a few years prior to that. Although there’s a subtle cel-shading technique employed that helps the character models pop, reflections look like they’re being rendered on a Nokia N-Gage and the majority of the environmental textures feature all the definition of a coffee stain on a tablecloth.When York enters one of the nightmarish ‘otherworld’ areas of Deadly Premonition 2, his pistol fuses with his arm to become a ‘gunhand’ not unlike the one James Woods’ character wields in the 1983 horror movie Videodrome. And that’s about as interesting as the combat gets, because Deadly Premonition 2’s shooting is otherwise offensively dull. These otherworld sections, which typically unlock at the end of each of the four main episodes, are repeated sets of identical hallways full of slow-moving enemies that lack the quirky mix of creepiness and comic relief that the Shadows provided in the previous game, and they never manage to pose any real threat. They’re just there for you to mindlessly mow down before moving onto the next room full of demonic dimwits. It doesn’t feel like Deadly Premonition, just dreadful repetition.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate - Min Min DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/super-smash-bros-ultimate-min-min-dlc-review|Even as it approaches 80(!) fighters, it’s impressive how Super Smash Bros. Ultimate can still find fresh ideas to liven up its roster. Nintendo's incredible stable of characters certainly helps, but even in that context, Min Min, the latest character kicking off Ultimate's second DLC Fighter Pass, is an odd pick. She's not a fan-favorite or wild third-party guest star, but she quickly sets herself apart by forcing you to rethink your usual habits and be a little more methodical in how you approach Smash Bros. She's a specialized character with a steep learning curve and clear weaknesses – but if you're willing to stick with her, she's one of the best examples of melding a character's source material with their kit Smash has seen in a while.Min Min hails from Arms, the Switch’s slow-paced arena fighter that has you leading your shots as you land long-distance punches with extendable arms. Her playstyle in Smash matches that pace, and I had to rewire my Smash Bros. brain a bit when I started playing as her. Instead of relying on the standard combination of regular A attacks and special B moves, the A and B buttons map to Min Min's right and left arms, respectively, and the two movesets mostly mirror each other. She only has two "special moves," in the traditional sense: holding an attack button down has Min Min deliver a mid-range swing with its respective arm, and her side-B delivers a Smash attack with her left arm, just like her side-A attack would.The huge reach of her arms makes her great at a range most fighters aren't, and she can keep out most melee fighters; this is especially fun to do with her throw, since she can grab enemies from the same distance, or even out of the air when they're trying to jump back onto the stage. Even better, her independently controlled arms mean she can deliver two Smash Attacks in a row, and in different directions, which lets her cover a wide distance around her. It's a different style of Smash Bros. than almost any other fighter, and while it was exciting to play a little differently than I had before, it does take some getting used to.The original Arms also lets you customize your extendable fists, and that's represented here as well. Min Min's down-B move swaps her left arm between three different options, and micromanaging these weapons adds a great strategic layer to the character. The circular Ramram has a winding arc and is great at guarding ledges from characters who can't easily jump back on the stage, but doesn't deal a lot of damage; the ball-like Megawatt makes all of your B attacks hit much harder (her neutral air attack goes from decent defensive option to powerful finisher, for example) and can secure a kill at lower percentages, but is slow and lacks reach; the Dragon Arm has the best range, but isn't as powerful as the Megawatt or as versatile as the Ramram. Keeping track of which arm I had equipped tripped me up at first – judging when to build up damage with the Ramram, when to surprise people with the Dragon and when to go for the kill with the Megawatt reminded me of using Pokemon Trainer, and it's a great way to give her options and keep you from just spamming the same few attacks at a distance.Playing well with Min Min means reading both the distance and actions of your opponent a little more in advance than usual – just like in Arms. Her slow, mid-range attacks feel unwieldy at times, since they're easily stuffed up close. You can't mash with her, either, since tapping A or B has her use her legs to push people at close range, which isn't her best option. And, like Little Mac, she wants to be level with her opponent as often as possible: keep opponents out, surprise them with back-to-back attacks, and swap arms to keep them guessing. But because of how freeform Ultimate's vertical movement is, most other characters should find it fairly easy to stay out of her ideal range, and if you miss an attack, chances are you'll be left open to counterattacks. Min Min has an especially tough time against zoners like Palutena, who can keep her out of her comfortable range for most of the match without having to get in close. And while her grappling recovery has a good reach when you do get knocked way, she otherwise doesn't have a ton of options for getting back on the stage, and suffers a little on some of the stranger stages like Hanenbow.Thankfully, Min Min has a few fun tricks to work around her lack of vertical finesse, like an aerial dive kick that can surprise opponents used to only watching their sides, and her Up-B lets you close the distance quickly when used on the ground. These can catch people off-guard, but the novelty of these tricks wears off once you start learning how to play against her, and I expect they will only get harder to land as more people inevitably figure out how to play around her range. But I don’t see her ability to deliver two Smash Attacks in a row losing value any time soon; every time my opponent dodged my first Smash Attack, only for me to forcefully remind them I had a second arm to score a gratifying kill, all her rough edges seemed to just disappear.The Challenger Pack 6 DLC also comes with the Spring Stadium stage and 18 new music tracks from Arms. Spring Stadium is a flat, somewhat bland stage, similar to Smashville. It does have a couple of cool gimmicks, though; a few jump pads activate at different times, letting you get some distance from your opponent if they're smothering you. A couple of them are outside the main stage, too, making it easier for characters to recover. There are also a couple of small ceilings that can keep you from getting knocked out vertically, which feels like a thematically appropriate boon if you’re playing as Min Min. Spring Stadium can get pretty chaotic with more than two characters, but unlike Min Min herself, it feels pretty in line with the more basic stages in Ultimate.
Pokémon: The Isle of Armor Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/pokemon-sword-and-shield-the-isle-of-armor-dlc-review|While it may be surprising to see DLC in a Pokémon game for the first time, Sword and Shield’s Expansion Pass is definitely preferable to its traditional model of following up the latest game with another full-price version just to deliver some new content and a few improvements. The Isle of Armor, the Expansion Pass’s first of two bundled DLC additions, provides an entertaining reason to revisit the Galar region with over 100 returning Pokemon (plus a few new ones) and an enjoyable new Wild Area. But this island getaway is otherwise pretty bare bones and disappointingly brief.Like the free-roaming Wild Area in the main Sword and Shield campaign, The Isle of Armor’s is complete with an excess of untamed Pokémon wandering around, dozens of dens for Max Raid Battles, and plenty of items to find and collect. Without the usual Gym structure (or even linear Routes), this DLC’s main quest line instead has you running missions throughout its open space – it’s much more freeform than the usual Pokémon experience, which feels like a natural and not unwelcome progression after the first Wild Area showed how well an “open world” Pokémon could potentially work, even if the story here is too fleeting to really savor it.From our November 2019 Pokemon Sword and Shield review by Casey DeFreitas:"Pokemon Sword and Pokemon Shield are closer to my dream Pokemon RPGs than anything that’s come before. I’d still like better cutscenes, companion Pokemon, the complete Pokedex, and a more visually interesting Wild Area, but nitpicks are just not very effective when everything else was such a complete joy to play. The way they respect my time is wonderful, and the removal of monotony from random encounters and other odds and ends distills it down to only the pure and charming fun of capturing, training, and battling wonderful creatures. And hey, if I’m missing any tedious repetition, I can always get back into breeding."While it may not be as big as the original Wild Area in overall acreage, The Isle of Armor more than makes up for it in its diversity and in how well it uses the space. You’ll find tangled forests filled with Tangela and oceans where Sharpedo’s pursue you with frightening speed. Even if it can all be seen in a few short hours, it’s undoubtedly an entertaining trek that does a great job of making the world feel alive and more fleshed out than the Wild Area from the base game.The Isle of Armor unfortunately doesn’t mark the return of the complete National Pokédex, but it does significantly expand the Pokémon available in Sword and Shield with more than 100 returning pocket monsters. It’s a great selection, including some sorely needed additions like Bulbasaur, Squirtle, and most of all: Lickilicky, which is obviously the best Pokémon ever conceived.Unfortunately, Isle of Armor doesn’t use its new, lovingly crafted area very effectively, as the DLC’s campaign amounts to just a few short missions that can be finished in a couple hours, most of which are uninspired fetch quests. You’ll run around looking for mushrooms and fighting off Slowpoke on a decidedly low stakes adventure that feels like a fairly by-the-numbers RPG side quest. There are certainly some highlights, like the part where you need to befriend and level up the brand new and pretty darn lovable Kubfu to unlock one of its two legendary evolutions. But it all feels very shallow with no real narrative holding it together, and Pokemon in the wild almost universally capping out at level 60 means anyone who has beaten the base game will be able to breeze through the whole thing like I did.It also doesn’t help that one of the DLC’s chief characters, your new rivals (Klara for Sword players, and Avery for Shield), are both incredibly annoying and written off largely as a punchline rather than anything resembling a real threat. The other two major characters, a dojo master named Mustard, and his wife Honey, are amusing, but don’t get enough time in the spotlight to really shine.That said, Isle of Armor introduces a few new mechanics that do a lot to break the mold of Sword and Shield in positive ways. A welcome item called Max Soup allows you to Gigantimax your Pokémon even if they weren’t caught in a Max Raid Battle. A surprising new base-building mechanic lets you upgrade Mustard’s dojo by spending Watts, unlocking helpful new services and items. And of course, there are plenty of cool new cosmetics, like clothes and bicycle skins.Sadly, there isn’t a ton left to do once the campaign is over, aside from catching the island’s plentiful returning Pokémon – though you’ll now be able to do that with the Pokémon of your choice following you around the DLC areas, which is a nice cosmetic reward earned by progressing through the story. One of the main draws is Restricted Sparring, a challenging endgame mode that pits three of your Pokémon of the same type against five opposing trainers in a row (and then an endless onslaught of them after that) – it’s a creative new format, but is only appealing if you’re looking to earn BP for the Battle Tower. There’s also a boring side quest where you run around looking for 151 Digletts buried in the ground that’s nightmarishly tedious, and hardly worth the various Alolan versions of Pokémon you get as a reward.The Isle of Armor DLC is the first part of the Pokémon Sword and Shield Expansion Pass, which will eventually include two expansions – The Isle of Armor and The Crown Tundra (coming sometime later this year). Crucially, The Isle of Armor is not sold separately from the Expansion Pass, so this DLC is only one part of a bigger whole. We’ll be reviewing The Crown Tundra when it releases, but this review is only evaluating The Isle of Armor since that’s currently all the Expansion Pass will get you.
Those Who Remain Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/those-who-remain-review|Many of us have felt afraid of the dark at some point in our lives, but Those Who Remain takes that irrational phobia and imbues it with some tangible menace. A creepy psychological thriller that will kill you should you so much as set one foot into its shadows, Those Who Remain forces you to seek solace under streetlights and puzzle your way to illuminate new paths through your shady surroundings, sort of like the inverse of a standard stealth game design. It’s an intriguing horror premise that Those Who Remain uses in some fairly creative ways, but control shortcomings and a disjointed flow to its narrative prevent it from being a consistent thrill for its full six-hour duration.Not everything works as effectively as it should, though, and that leads to frustratingly regular checkpoint restarts. Those Who Remain features a pretty streamlined control setup, so it's particularly galling that its main interactions frequently fall down due to their inherent fiddliness. Clearing a room of dark-dwelling demons is as easy as flicking a light switch, or at least it is in theory. In practice, inching through a doorway sideways while waving the reticule over the switch in an attempt to make the hand prompt appear all too often ends in an instant death as you accidently nudge a toe into the black and become consumed by the murderous mob. To make matters worse, light switches have a glowing red LED whether they’re on or off, so it’s not always clear whether they need to be flicked or not.At a handful of junctions throughout the story and at the behest of a mysterious masked stranger, Edward must gather evidence to either forgive or condemn a Dormant resident who’s trapped in purgatory for a crime they’ve committed. According to the developers, the half-dozen or so fates you determine along the way contributes directly to which one of three story endings you receive; however, in practice I played through Those Who Remain twice, making an opposing series of decisions – one totally benevolent, the other wrathful – and both times I ended up with the exact same total bummer of an outcome. I’m not sure if it was a bug specific to me or a general fault with Those Who Remain – perhaps appropriately, I’m still completely in the dark – but I’m certainly not compelled to play through again to find out if the third time’s a charm.
Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Nintendo Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/xenoblade-chronicles-definitive-edition-review|For a story where controlling the future is a critical plot device, it’s pretty ironic that Xenoblade Chronicles has never managed to get its timing right until now. After it’s unfortunate 2012 debut in the final days of the Wii’s lifecycle and a low-res port to the 3DS that didn’t do it justice, at long last it can shine on a console in its prime – and the result is an improvement as massive as the titan Bionis itself – and that’s before we even get into any of the Definitive Edition’s numerous and largely positive improvements.
TT Isle of Man: Ride on the Edge 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/tt-isle-of-man-ride-on-the-edge-2-review|The Isle of Man TT is perhaps the most outrageously dangerous motorsport event in the world. Held on nearly 38 miles of perilously-skinny public road draped over the Isle of Man, this enduring motorcycle time-trial barely goes a year without killing a competitor – claiming over 150 souls since its inception in 1907. Not to be flippant about the loss of life but, above anything else, KT Racing’s TT Isle of Man: Ride on the Edge 2 aptly illustrates why this event is just so potentially deadly.Diabolically tricky and boasting a wicked sense of speed, this impressive albeit slightly uneven sequel feels fast and dangerous in a way racing games rarely muster.The star of the show remains the complete 37.73 mile Snaefell Mountain Course itself, with its tree-lined corridors, ancient city streets, and beachside blasts. Navigating the narrow roads of the course at truly sphincter-shrivelling speeds is an immense and unforgiving challenge, and the amount of crashes I’ve had while on maximum attack has made it abundantly clear why the real TT is infamous for its sadly-extensive list of casualties. In fact, there are times when Ride on the Edge 2 seems to share more in common with something like WipeOut than a contemporary motorsports sim, such is the startling velocity, amplified by the cramped roads. The top-notch sound is an integral part of the sensation of speed, particularly the way wind noise thuds through the speakers as your bike whips past trackside objects.I’ve never been to the Isle of Man but, based on footage, KT Racing’s version of the course is an admirably authentic facsimile of the real thing. I haven’t spotted any especially major visual differences between the version of the course here and the version that debuted in the original 2018 game but, even if there were any, they’d be fairly hard to absorb at speeds regularly tickling 200 miles per hour. There’s some pop-in now and then, but not enough of it to really detract from the experience.Like the first game there’s a smattering of other, fictional tracks available too – scattered across the UK and Ireland. They’re adequate but a bit plain compared to the far more densely-detailed Snaefell course. A modest free roam mode is also included, though it’s basically the fictional courses stitched together. The open roads are peppered with typical open-world racing challenges and are adequate for a quick blat, but Ride on the Edge 2’s handling model is much better suited to full throttle racing as opposed to general exploration.The handling is definitely an improvement over the original, which felt a little more slippery overall. The heavier bikes in particular now cling to the road far more realistically and, while still quite nimble, their bulk is communicated well via their far longer braking distances. Smaller bikes have obviously benefited from the handling tweaks too but I don’t find them as fun to ride as they’re considerably twitchier. There are several layers of assists to lean on should the punishing pro handling prove an insurmountable challenge but know that, even on the simplest settings, Ride on the Edge 2 requires rapid reflexes and an extremely deft touch. A dose of gravel rash is the only reward for cack-handed cornering, and a lapse in concentration at 200 miles per hour will send you spearing into a stone wall like a sidewinder missile.The chase view leaves something to be desired, unfortunately, sometimes making it appear like the bike is swinging beneath the rider’s head like a pendulum. The bigger problem is that the low-speed handling is still a bit shonky, making acute hairpins and extremely narrow low-speed sections of track unnecessarily troublesome (Snaefell’s Governor’s Bridge hairpin and the subsequent skinny section, right at the end of a lap, is a particularly notorious offender). Tiny bumps also have a regular tendency to high side riders in the blink of an eye. Such accidents are probably partly realistic at these immense speeds, but the kind of track knowledge required to remember all the individual pieces of otherwise undetectable tarmac that will probably buck riders from their bikes in this game is out of my reach. As you’d expect, Ride on the Edge 2 features a dynamic racing line – which does place braking warnings on some dangerous jumps – but it’s a bit frustrating to be thrown off when the racing line is otherwise giving you the all-clear.Career mode has been fleshed out since the original but it’s mostly vanilla. There does seem to be a bit more structure to the path to the TT, which has several ways in which you can earn a place. The learning curve is steep, however, and conquering the AI can be a real arm wrestle – particularly when there are commonly one or two frontrunners seemingly capable of supernatural speed at times.Upgrades need to be applied to your bikes, and you’ll definitely need to secure them to be competitive. There’s also a perk system that can give you a slight edge, which functions like the mod cards in Forza Motorsport 7. These perks feel a bit weird in Ride on the Edge 2, however, as arbitrary buffs to your ballast or brakes and such seem pretty at odds with the game’s pursuit of realism elsewhere. On the one hand it’s kind of handy being able to play a perk that slows the AI down a fraction for an event but, on the other, it also feels a bit like cheating.
The Wonderful 101: Remastered Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/the-wonderful-101-remastered-review|The highs of The Wonderful 101 were some of my best gaming moments of 2013 – and wouldn’t you know it, seven years later it still hasn't lost its Platinum luster. Tragically, relatively few action game fans got to experience it because it’s been limited to the Wii U until now, but The Wonderful 101 Remastered has finally escaped onto Switch, PlayStation 4, and PC and it’s every bit as good as the 2013 original.In fact, it’s even a little bit better thanks to smoother performance, faster load times, and a few smart additions that make its notorious learning curve a little easier. I wish it’d gone further with those and done more with the visual upgrade to justify the “remastered” label as opposed to being a straight port with a few tweaks, but this is still the definitive version of one of the most refreshingly different and endearing action games ever made.The Wonderful 101 is a rare breed of action game even for Platinum Games, the developer that has basically written the book on them at this point. Its 10 to 12-hour adventure is an absolutely delightful superhero/sentai-inspired romp with great characters, amazing music, and some of the most downright impressive boss battles you’ll ever see. You control a group of tiny heroes known collectively as the Wonderful 100, and by using the right stick you can draw simple symbols that allow you to morph your mob into the shape of a weapon. For example, if you draw a circle they’ll make a fist; draw a straight line, you’ll get a sword; an L-shape transforms them into a gun; and a curvy line creates a whip.Where things get really interesting is in the ways that these weapons interact with the world and your enemies. A visual language eventually starts to develop where you’ll learn that when you see spikes, you need to switch to the whip; when there’s a beam, you’ll need a sword to reflect it; when there’s a circular bomb on the ground, you’ll need to use the gun to suck it up and shoot it out. Very little of this visual language is intuitive, which is why it’s a bit of a problem that it is rarely explicitly taught to you. You kind of just have to pick up on it as you go, and at times it can feel like the developers expect you to read their minds when it comes to knowing how to avoid certain attacks.It doesn’t help either that Wonderful 101 is uniquely punishing if you don’t know what to do in the moment. Getting hit, using the wrong weapon, or even using the right weapon at the wrong time can cause your group of heroes to careen off in all directions and leave you unable to defend or attack until you gather them up again; drawing specific glyphs can be finicky until you learn certain tricks that prevent you from mistakenly drawing the wrong one; and fighting some enemies without knowledge of key weaknesses can be extremely long and arduous affairs without any indication that there’s a better way.Platinum has clearly identified the learning curve as a problem, as Remastered includes a few small adjustments that make it a little more inviting to newcomers. Unite Guts and Unite Spring, two vital techniques that essentially serve as a block and dodge button, respectively, are now basically free in the abilities shop from the start, emphasizing more than ever that these skills need to be purchased immediately.Likewise, Multi-Unite, another essential technique that allows you to create AI-controlled weapons, is now a recommended purchase in the shop as opposed to an ability you have from the start. This is a smart change because you don’t really need Multi-unite for a while, and eventually forget it exists by the time you actually need to use it. Having it appear as something to buy in the shop makes it more likely that you’ll experiment with it when you get it and understand its use right from the get-go.These are great changes, and a good start, but the effort to make Wonderful 101 a little more accessible for newcomers still feels only half-fulfilled.That said, it’s important to emphasize that once you get over the initial hurdles involved with understanding Wonderful 101’s combat, it becomes… well, wonderful. It’s deep, flashy as all hell, and has a unique sense of freedom and choice. There’s usually an optimal way to defeat certain enemies, but they often don’t afford the kind of combo points needed to get those Platinum and Pure Platinum medals. So you have to make a choice of whether you want to play it safe and end a fight quickly, or be a little riskier and focus on bigger combos. There’s also a particular sense of urgency to every action because new weapons need to be drawn extremely quickly in order to use their special properties to either avoid taking damage or to capitalize on a brief opening – when you’re able to nail those opportunities, it feels awesome.Beyond that, Wonderful 101 is one of the best action games out there when it comes to mixing it up. Most of the nine operations have at least one segment that shifts genre completely, whether it’s to an arcade-style shooter, a straight-up Space Harrier homage, or an underground chase that has you drilling through blocks. They’re all fun in their own way, and thankfully never outstay their welcome.Then there are the bosses, which are some of the most mechanically interesting and downright exhilarating boss battles I’ve ever experienced. Seven years later I’d still hate to spoil the best ones, but even when they’re pulling inspiration from obvious sources they manage to burst at the seams with creativity – and if their epic conclusions don’t make you feel something, you might need to check your pulse.The Wonderful 101 is a game that made excellent use of the Wii U’s gamepad, but it turns out it works just as well without it. You were always able to use the right stick as opposed to the touch screen to draw the glyphs, and while there were moments where you’d have to control something on the gamepad while still paying attention to what was happening on the second screen, those segments play just as well with picture-in-picture boxes on a single, big screen.Performance-wise, I’ve only gotten a chance to play on the Switch and PC versions. It runs like a dream on an Intel Core i7-6700k CPU and Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 graphics card, with a consistently smooth framerate and lightning-fast load times courtesy of an SSD. The Switch version, while still substantially better than the Wii U (especially when it comes to load times) still struggles a bit with maintaining that 60 frames per second mark once the action gets intense, as it tends to do fairly often. It’s never a huge issue, but it’s a bit disappointing to see considering how much better the Switch version of Bayonetta 2 is in comparison to its Wii U counterpart.From our August 2013 The Wonderful 101 review, by Keza MacDonald:“The Wonderful 101 is both a showcase for the amazing potential of the Wii U’s GamePad and for its pitfalls. It’s amazingly inventive and full of color and bright-eyed character, but its control problems are so persistent they’re unignorable. Even that doesn’t ruin what is otherwise a clever and adventurous action game, but The Wonderful 101 is kept from being as truly wonderful as it might have been.”
Streets of Rage 4 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/streets-of-rage-4-review|Still raging 26 years later, Streets of Rage 4 is a faithful revival of the classic arcade beat-’em-ups. Move from left to right, punch enemies, destroy objects for points, health, and weapon pickups, punch a few more enemies, and repeat. It’s simple and unadventurous, and while it expands modestly on combat with a few new skills to master, Streets of Rage 4 definitely prioritises nostalgia over any kind of big modern reinvention.The plot is wafer-thin and predictably corny, but it's beautifully presented in a comic book panel style. Mr and Ms Y, the twin offspring of series’ villain Mr X, are the big bads this time and their evil scheme is to control the city by “corrupting everything good” while looking like a couple of sub-par Scott Pilgrim villains. It’s all very silly, but in a knowing, not-taking itself-too-seriously kinda way, and it just about pulls it off.It’s 10 years since the events of Streets of Rage 3 and series regulars, Axel Stone and Blaze Fielding, return to fight crime again despite likely being “too old for this shit.” To balance out the familiar with something different is the addition of two brand-new characters, Cherry Hunter (the daughter of series stalwart, Adam Hunter) and a cybernetic armed, absolute unit called Floyd Iraia.Just like in the old games, each character has a special move that does a lot more damage at the cost of taking a chunk out of your own health bar. However, an added risk-reward twist for Streets of Rage 4 is that any lost health can potentially be earnt back if you string a combo of standard attacks together on top of it. Any break in this combo results in the health being lost permanently. On my first playthrough, which took between two and three hours, I found myself avoiding special moves due to their risky nature. However, as I got the hang of combos I started using them semi-regularly in situations where I felt confident I could earn that precious health back. It’s a simple but interesting minigame, and perhaps the most important addition into progressing the Streets of Rage formula as a whole.A stronger weapon in your arsenal are Star Moves. Every character’s is slightly different – Axel’s, for instance, is a flaming rising uppercut, while Cherry’s is a Pete Townshend-inspired guitar powerslide – but triggering them will do a huge amount of damage to any Y Syndicate members unlucky enough to be in your path. At the start of every level you’re given one charge, but more can be collected during your travels and they’re almost always best reserved for bosses where you’ll need it the most. Using them while fighting the regular goons often feels unnecessary as most situations are manageable, but they’re still a fun spectacle with Floyd’s screen dominating uni beam being a visual treat.Another enjoyable addition to combat is the inclusion of the weapon catch maneuver. Throw any weapon at an enemy and, if it makes contact, it’ll bounce back, giving you a split-second to catch it and keep whacking away with it. Like Gears of War’s active reload timed-button-press mechanic, there's a rhythm required to master it, but once you’ve do it’s supremely rewarding.However, for every moment of feeling like a deadly ninja, there are moments that are simply unfair due to factors completely out of your control. There’s one section where getting hit with a grenade bounces you into the path of another explosion, with no way to dodge or escape. I lost half my health as a result and this inability to prevent it from happening was very frustrating.Of the four starting characters, the returning duo of Axel and Blaze immediately felt familiar and fit right in place in a ’90s side-scrolling beat-’em up, but they do feel a little generic at this point. They’re both well-rounded fighters who don’t necessarily excel in any ability, but work best as an introductory character for new players and a recognisable sight for veterans. By contrast, Floyd and Cherry couldn’t be further apart, and their movesets are by far the most exciting and fun to play.Cherry Hunter – despite carrying a guitar on her back – can move at a significant speed, which is (literally) a nice change of pace to the other characters, and that made her my preferred choice in my first playthrough. Her ability to sprint and weave through attacks feels more in line with what I expected a modern Streets of Rage would play like, which is also why I was initially disappointed with how sluggish the other characters felt in comparison. Floyd, for instance, is by far the slowest character, but I soon appreciated that what he lacks in speed is compensated for with strength. His ability to toss enemies around like rag dolls eventually won me over and had me experimenting with different playstyles.Within the constraints of the restricted nature of side-scrolling beat ’em-ups, Streets of Rage 4 at least makes an attempt to spice up the level design. Levels like Skytrain and Airplane add little bits of variety (like high-speed train signs flying at you during combat, for example) to keep the environments fresh.Weapons are no longer restricted to hand-to-hand combat either: we get giant wrecking balls, chandeliers, and plenty of destructible scenery playing its part in the violence. There’s even a level of tactics to using some of these, especially the wrecking balls. Timing your activation just right can result in dealing an extremely satisfying level of damage. There’s also a 2D sequence that conjures up memories of the hammer hallway scene from 2003’s South Korean classic film, Oldboy, where mastery of the weapon catch can make you feel unstoppable.Every change of pace really adds to the enjoyment of Street of Rage 4, so much so it’s disappointing there isn’t even more variety throughout to ensure combat is fresh from beginning to end of its short run. As it is, they’re all-too-brief moments of joy; returning to the more traditional levels is sometimes a drag.The music sets the tone and definitely feels on-brand with the iconic beats of the series. Although I’d have to say that in the era of game soundtracks like Hotline Miami and the recent Final Fantasy 7 Remake, they don’t quite hit the same sort of ‘I can’t get this track out of my brain’ status, or even its predecessors.All 12 levels predictably end in a boss fight and, for the most part, there’s a good balance of variety and difficulty throughout. Most are smartly designed with often-challenging attack patterns you’ll need to learn, but disappointingly there are repeated enemies in later levels with arbitrary difficulty spikes like, “Here’s two of them now!” In general though, the enemies are a good mix of old and new with neither feeling out of place, despite the 26-year age gap.I played through the first time alone, but that’s only half the fun. Less, even. The two-player online co-op really shines though with the intensity and chaos increased. It also made me fully appreciate the potential character combos and the satisfaction of perfectly executing a tandem move such as Floyd throwing an enemy into Cherry’s rushing flying knee. If you’re looking for longevity, two-player co-op is where it’s at. (Streets of Rage 4 also has local four-player co-op but, due to the current isolation circumstances, I was unable to try it out.)Beyond the campaign and its five difficulty levels (Mania is exactly what it sounds like!) there's a tough boss rush mode, Arcade (which is basically the story campaign but with a consistent life count), and a PVP battle mode to mess around with. But that’s it. And frankly, the story mode is better than any of these options, so if you’re playing alone there’s little replayability on offer.One thing Streets of Rage 4 does offer, however, is the wealth of nostalgic choices, such as the retro Streets of Rage 1 and 2 soundtracks and old CRT filters. It takes a little grinding to unlock, but there’s also a lifetime point system that gives access to faithfully recreated playable characters (and a modern version of Adam who unlocks during the story) from previous entries in the series. They aren’t just skins either – these characters have their own move sets, animations, and sound effects.Despite their sprites contrasting against the lush, cartoon-like world of Streets of Rage 4, these retro characters fit nicely into the combat loop and help reinforce how the latest instalment reignites that passion for the series through nostalgia. In fact, they’re so accurately recreated that, annoyingly, the characters from Streets of Rage 1 don’t even have special moves and must solely rely on their basic, “Call the cops for an airstrike” star moves. As a result they feel at odds with the new risk-reward system and it pretty much renders them unusable on the harder difficulties. In a way, this feels like a metaphor for the entire game: instead of taking bolder steps to modernise the formula, Streets of Rage 4 sticks rigidly to the past, for little more than nostalgia’s sake.
Moving Out Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/moving-out-review|Helping friends move house is widely regarded as one of the worst ways you can spend a Saturday, but somehow developer SMG Studio has taken that most dreaded of friendly favours and transformed it into fantastically frantic fun. Moving Out is a couch co-op game about cooperatively moving couches, successfully expanding Overcooked’s brand of coordinated chaos from the kitchen into every other room in the house. Often tense and frequently hysterical, Moving Out is a must-play for fans of same-screen multiplayer games.
Trials of Mana Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/trials-of-mana-review|In bringing this charming and beautiful 16-bit game to the modern era, Square Enix has done a fantastic job transitioning from 2D to 3D, wonderfully recreating the feel of the original in great detail. However, this faithfulness is a bit of a double-edged sword, because Trials of Mana throws just about every mid-90s JRPG trope at you, making its locations and stories feel out of date in spite of the modern graphical overhaul.Trials of Mana, known as Seiken Densetsu 3 in Japan, came out in 1995, but the original didn't see a Western release until last year's Collection of Mana. I'm of the belief that this is the most beautiful 16-bit game ever made, and the remake does a wonderful job capturing most of that beauty. Given the fact I'm an old man, set in his ways, I prefer the 2D pixel art of the original, but the remake translates its charm admirably in a way that kids today can appreciate. Trials of Mana has a gorgeous, colorful art style, with hyper-saturated colors giving everything a deep, dreamlike hue. On Switch, Trials of Mana looks lovely; on PS4 Pro, it's even better – and you’ll avoid the Switch’s frame drops if you play there. Even docked, the Switch looks like it's struggling to hit 30 frames, and in some cutscenes the framerate looks awful. It's particularly noticeable late in the story when you’re calling your dragon friend, Flammie. It's… it's not smooth.Musically, the new incarnation of Trials of Mana’s modern arrangements of the original chiptune soundtrack sound phenomenal. One feature I really like is the ability to swap between the remake and the original 16-bit soundtrack at any time. Both are just so good! In fact, at one point I swapped to the original soundtrack and completely forgot to change back. It's a testament to just how great the original soundtrack is, and how faithfully transposed the old MIDI files are for instrumentation.These days, the term “remake” can mean anything from a borderline remaster that simply aim to recreate the original game scene-for-scene in a new engine to a complete reimagining of the old game’s themes, like an XCOM: Enemy Unknown or a Resident Evil 2. Trials of Mana’s remake is on the extremely loyal side of that spectrum, and just about everything plays as it did in the ‘90s. The ring menus of the original are here, used in much the same way, and they're a great solution to juggling spells and items mid-combat. Plus the sounds they make are like old-school ASMR.Combat, too, feels incredibly similar, and I mean that as a complement because I've always liked the Mana series' unique action RPG battles. I love the balance between the real-time combat of action games with the party management of an RPG, which mercifully pauses the action so you can cycle through the rings to find the command you want to give without undue pressure. It takes some getting used to its chaotic rhythm, that's for sure, but when Trials' combat clicked for me, all the disparate parts and pieces felt manageable and made perfect sense.My main complaint about the 2020 version is that the camera doesn't follow you in battles: you have to move it on your own. There's already enough to think about with combos and charge attacks, and I don't need another thing to keep track of – especially something so important as being able to see what’s going on.The real fun in combat comes from Trials of Mana's many boss battles. Maintaining your party through some of the tougher fights means thinking ahead, exploiting elemental weaknesses, and keeping everyone from dying through liberal use of magic and items. The AI for your party members does a great job keeping them doing what you actually want them to do, so you don't have to scream at the screen because your healer is running head-first into a melee attack while the rest of the party is on death's door. You're also free to swap between party members at any time and take advantage of one of their special abilities or magic spells when you need it to be used in a specific place. The ability to change characters mid-battle gives you even more flexibility. On normal settings difficulty felt a little on the easy side, but there's a Hard setting, too – that might be a good mode for returning veterans to start out on. (There’s an Easy mode as well, of course.)While I’m a big advocate of maintaining fidelity to the original’s gameplay, I found myself wishing Square Enix had been willing to make a few departures when it comes to the plot. The loyalty to the original’s story and locations means there’s lots of empty, cliche NPC dialogue to sort through ("Yippee! Long live Laurent!" and "Welcome to our humble town, traveler!" for example). That seems like the kind of thing a remake should leave on the cutting room floor, given the rare opportunity to improve a great game’s pacing. At the same time, there aren't any sidequests, or really any compelling reasons to talk to NPCs at all. I don’t want to be sent to clear the sewers of rats or anything but I could’ve used some local color.That's not to say Trials of Mana is lacking in content. It's not. You pick from one of six characters at the start, as well as a secondary and tertiary character for your party. It took me just around 20 hours to make it through Duran's story with Angela and Charlotte as my party, but you're free to play through as any of the six characters and experience the stories from their points of view. Each one has their own story, all of which cross paths with each of the other characters at least once in the course of a playthrough. Also, when you meet one of the characters in your party for the first time, you're also given the option to play through the opening of their stories. In the interest of expediency I opted out, but Trials of Mana did a nice job recapping everything for me without forcing me to play through two extra hours of backstory. I appreciate the choice.There are also class changes to unlock, with battle techniques and abilities varying depending one which you pick. Each class change has two options – Light and Dark – each with their own strengths and weaknesses. There's no penalty for choosing Dark over Light, they just present different options as you progress. You change your class at level 18 and again at level 38, so you can have a Light-Light, Dark-Light, or Dark-Dark character. For example, I chose the Dark class for Duran at level 18, which gave me the choice between Edelfrei or Duelist classes when the chance to change presented itself again. Edelfrei gains a 15% increase in weapon efficiency, while Duelist gets an increase in attack power after defeating enemies in battle. Abilities and charge attacks are also tied to which paths you choose, but ultimately I just chose the classes that looked the coolest.I'm definitely enjoying myself in the excellent post-game, but I won't spoil the story elements behind it. There's a new Class 4 option (Square Enix announced that a while back, so it's not a spoiler.) that you unlock, and I'm going to tell you right now: I've only unlocked one so far, and it was the toughest part of all of Trials of Mana up to this point. The post-game is more substantial than I imagined it would be, both from a content perspective and from the way it adds to the existing story.
Cooking Mama: Cookstar Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/cooking-mama-cookstar-review|With the bizarre (and seemingly disproven) allegations that Cooking Mama: Cookstar is a trojan horse for cryptocurrency mining on your Switch, it doesn’t help that Cookstar feels so suspiciously under-developed that it’s easy to believe it might have an ulterior motive. Have you ever walked past a store that didn’t seem like a plausible business and wondered if it might be a front for something illegal? Cooking Mama: Cookstar feels a lot like that. Whether it’s the asinine and tiresome minigames, the cringe-worthy voice acting, or the unforgivable motion controls, Cookstar warrants an investigation into what exactly went wrong.In the unenviable event that you’re playing Cooking Mama: Cookstar with a friend, the Potluck Party mode offers 10 cooperative and competitive minigames with riveting activities like seeing who can chop the most potatoes or who can clean the most dirty dishes. That’s right: Finally, Cookstar brings all of the excitement of competitive tedious chores to the Nintendo Switch, all without the actual productivity – and not a moment too soon! There are a few mildly amusing modes, like where one player controls a clove of garlic and the other tries to smash him with a mallet, and one where both players apply condiments to a burger and try to avoid one another’s trail that’s reminiscent of Tron’s Light Cycles. These modes are barebones, though, and feel so completely superficial that they become stale in seconds.While cooking recipes in single-player you’ll be playing a lot of less interesting minigames, which are largely either overly simplistic and mind-numbingly dull or incredibly frustrating due to poor motion controls and irritating design. Most amount to simple quick-time events where you press a button or wave a Joy-Con repeatedly until you’ve poured some liquid or chopped an onion. After the first few times you’ve played these, you’re probably pretty bored – but it keeps going, and going, and going anyway. But the frustrating minigames are even worse.While in docked mode, most minigames use motion controls, which is fine if you’re just cutting vegetables. But once you get into more delicate tasks like Cookstar’s rage-inducing cheese-grating minigame you’ll experience the ugly side of inaccurate motion controls. I’d move my arm to pour some ingredients into a bowl and the Joy-Con simply wouldn’t register anything. Then I’d become frustrated and panicked as the constantly ticking clock warns that I’m nearing failure, so I’d desperately swing the Joy-Con around only for Mama to tell me that I’m moving too fast and the ingredients would spill everywhere.Other minigames are just poorly designed, like the dough-kneading minigame, which has you follow prompts that pop up so slowly sometimes you fail due to arbitrary timing. Failing challenging tasks is one thing, but failing easy and tedious ones because you’re apparently jiggling your Joy-Con too fast is truly madenning. Luckily you can simply play in handheld mode or turn motion controls off, which makes things much less frustrating but also greatly increases the level of monotony as cooking becomes strictly a matter of quick-time events.Of course, success or failure hardly matters in Cookstar anyway. Simply completing recipes at any level of success grants cosmetics and unlocks the next recipe with no real incentive for doing so well. You can practice recipes in a dedicated practice mode, cook meals by following prompts in the “Cook It!” mode, or play the “Cookstar” mode where you play chef without the guidance of prompts, but each mode plays identically and doesn’t really lead to anything beyond unlocking the next recipe.There just aren’t any kind of stakes in Cookstar. As an experiment I tried my best to intentionally botch a recipe to see if I could create the grossest food ever, but literally nothing I did changed the outcome. When making a grilled cheese sandwich, I botched slicing bread, refused to grate or apply cheese, and burned the sandwich to a crisp. When the cooking was done and it was time to take photos of my food it looked the same it would have if I’d succeeded at any step in the process. If my failure or success were actually reflected in the final product that alone would have done wonders to improve my investment in doing each recipe well; seeing that nothing I did mattered anyway just made it feel all the more pointless.As you chop, grill, and steam your way through Cookstar’s various recipes, your ears will be tormented by some of the poorest voice acting in recent video game history. The self-proclaimed “mama” of Cooking Mama fame relentlessly repeats the same haunting lines without reprieve. If you’re doing something well she’ll egg you on, and if you’re doing something poorly she’ll whine and complain. If you’re going too fast she’ll tell you to slow down, and if you’re going too slowly she’ll tell you to hurry up. If you’re doing nothing at all, she’ll scream at you to say she’s getting hungry. It’s easily one of the worst parts of Cookstar and, after a long day of playing, I went to bed with her nagging voice in my head, afflicting my dreams. It goes without saying that the mute button is your friend.On top of all of that, one of Cooking Mama: Cookstar’s biggest failings is that it tries almost nothing new. Cooking Mama (2006) had the benefit of being an adorable showcase for the Nintendo DS’ touchscreen, but rather than doing something special on the Switch it simply recreates its predecessors with better graphics, more complicated recipes, and terrible motion controls instead of using the stylus. And when I say that it doesn’t try new things, I mean that quite literally. A side-by-side comparison of recipes from previous Cooking Mama games will show just how little things have changed, and that’s a major problem if you’re revisiting the series 14 years later (as I did) because it’s already stale the moment you start playing.
Totally Reliable Delivery Service Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/totally-reliable-delivery-service-review|If you took Death Stranding’s delivery-based gameplay and traded its oppressive post-apocalyptic setting for a tropical toy town with overblown physics you’d have Totally Reliable Delivery Service. In a similar vein to Goat Simulator and Human: Fall Flat, this game is shambolic by design in order to derive maximum humour from the resulting unpredictability, but it takes it to such an extreme that it’s not always easy to identify where the deliberate wonkiness ends and the unintended rough edges begin. As a result, Totally Reliable Delivery Service is just as likely to trigger fits of laughter as it is to spark fits of anger.Up to four players, either locally in split-screen or online, can cooperatively tackle 100 different deliveries dotted around an island-based sandbox. I say up to four players but what I really mean is a minimum of two, because although Totally Reliable Delivery Service can technically be played solo, it is a vastly inferior experience when you don’t have additional dopey deliverymen bumbling along with you to either help or hinder your progress.Deliveries can be tackled in any order and your success in completing them awards you a gold, silver, or bronze trophy, some cash, and a cosmetic item to customise your character with. I didn’t really find any of these rewards particularly compelling, though, especially the cash which seemingly can’t be spent anywhere, and my only real motivation for undertaking each delivery was the chaos that would typically unfold en route between each dispatch zone and reception point.
Exit the Gungeon Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/exit-the-gungeon-review|2016’s Enter The Gungeon is transcendent. It fuses buttery-smooth combat, cutesy pixel art, and hilarious callbacks into a surprisingly deep roguelike-shmup. It has style, substance, and about a thousand different guns.Thanks to a “blessing” you receive at the beginning of a run, your gun transforms several times every minute while fighting your way out of the now collapsing Gungeon. One second you’re wreaking havoc with a frog blowing bubbles; the next, it’s a tentacle that squeezes enemies to death. And the next, you’ve got a nail gun that exists just to make sure you know how good you had it with the frog.The more you hit enemies without getting hit, the more your combo meter increases. Supposedly, the higher this combo meter goes, the more likely you are to receive high-quality guns while you’re playing, but it never seemed to make much of a difference to me. Great guns, like the Predator appear at low levels and bad ones, like the nail gun, show up at high levels. That said, it’s a little comforting to know that even in a bad run you still have a chance at a comeback.That means every failure inches you just a bit closer to success. Or hey, you can always buy silly new hats instead.
Mortal Kombat 11 - Spawn DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/mortal-kombat-11-spawn-dlc-review|My exposure to Spawn comes from two main sources: The 1997 movie with Michael Jai White, and Soulcalibur 2. But even with just that small amount of knowledge of the character, I know one main thing about him: Spawn is freakin cool. Fortunately, Mortal Kombat 11 has done him justice. This is by far the most lovingly crafted version of Spawn you’ll find outside of the comic books, and gameplay-wise, he’s not so shabby either.Despite looking like a huge, hulking bruiser, Spawn is actually pretty fast. He can cover a lot of distance really quickly thanks to his dash speed, allowing him to go from playing the long-range projectile game to getting into the mid-range – where he does his best work – in the blink of an eye. As you’d expect from Spawn, a large part of his offense revolves around his chains and his cape, both of which have absurd range, can lead to big damage, and look cool as all hell.The best thing about Spawn, though, apart from how cool he looks (have I mentioned that he looks awesome?) is how versatile his moveset is because of so many unique abilities. He’s got a meterless restanding combo-ender that can also knock down and deal huge damage if meter is spent on it, insane range on all of his normals, a jab combo that can krushing blow on counter hit, a meterless launcher with tons of range, and a charging move that can absorb a projectile. And that’s just the stuff that’s on his base kit!Spawn can also do things that literally no one else on the roster can do. His War Club special move has the unique capability of breaking an opponent’s breakaway. So, if they try to drop out of a combo and you use the War Club on them, not only will they not drop out, but they’ll actually be popped up for a combo extender and will be left completely without their defensive meter. It’s a very situational ability, but when you hit with it, it feels incredibly satisfying.Beyond the War Club, Spawn is also the only character on the roster that can turn invisible (without using a glitch). That’s a familiar gimmick for those who play a lot of Netherrealm fighting games, but with Spawn it’s particularly dangerous because he’s able to threaten with two different krushing blows while he’s invisible. One is activated when he connects his unblockable command grab and enhances it while cloaked, and the other is triggered when he hits with just the third hit of a combo that has him traveling nearly the entire distance of the level. That’s easy to see coming if you can literally see it coming, but much harder if you can’t. It’s legitimately stressful to be on the other end of an invisible Spawn, not knowing whether he’ll try to do the command grab or the krushing blow knee – or something else entirely.But while Spawn’s arsenal is extensive, a lot of it is also very situational. If you don’t correctly guess on an opponent’s breakaway, the War Club is a pretty underwhelming combo-ender, and it also takes the spot of Spawn’s main combo-extending special move, which hurts his damage. The invisibility is a great tool, but it only works in the third competitive variation, and requires two bars of meter in order to threaten with the invisibility krushing blow.His biggest weapon is his long-range mid-to-overhead combo starter, which serves as the aforementioned meterless launcher – but it’s also a bit of a trap. It’s unsafe on block, and once you commit to the overhead you can’t cancel out and make it safe with some sort of special move. This makes Spawn a deceptively tough character to use, since you have to take care not to just throw out punishable overheads.On his third competitive variation this leads to some interesting mix-up opportunities, since he has his command throw that can be used after the initial hit. That will also allow him to cloak and play the aforementioned krushing blow pressure game. On his second competitive variation, Spawn loses pretty much any sort of mix-up potential and focuses instead on sheer damage. And man, does Spawn do some damage.I wasn’t sold on Spawn at first, mainly because I fell into that trap I was just describing of becoming overly reliant on his overhead combo. But once I learned his effective distance, how to appropriately lock down opponents in the corner with his chains, and to stop using his unsafe moves so much, Spawn ended up becoming a ton of fun. He still has some issues with characters that are able to rush him down and prevent him from creating space, but overall he seems pretty strong.Outside of his gameplay, Netherrealm’s designers once again prove that they are the masters of the guest character. Spawn’s implementation in Mortal Kombat 11 feels like a systematic checking of boxes for what a perfect video game iteration of Spawn would be:It’s all here, and it’s all wonderful. Few characters naturally fit in with the Mortal Kombat universe like Spawn does.
Murder by Numbers Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/murder-by-numbers-review|A detective, a robot, and a drag queen walk into a bar. That’s not the start of a joke, it’s an actual level in Murder by Numbers, a charming visual novel/mystery-puzzler that’s chock-full of charismatic characters and colorful locations. It may land just shy of reaching the admittedly high bars set by its inspirations, but I still had a great time solving this series of ‘90s-style whodunnits.Murder by Numbers’ premise can be quickly summed up as “Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney mixed with Picross,” and if you’re the kind of person who read that and immediately let out a thirsty “Ooo,” then chances are you can probably just stop reading now and buy this game. It accomplishes that simple brief with flying colors, to the point where I can easily recommend it for either of its parts, let alone the sum of them together.You play as Honor, a TV actress unexpectedly thrust into life as a detective, accompanied by an adorable, scan-happy robot named SCOUT. Honor is an excellent protagonist: smart as a whip but a touch too overzealous for her own good. Watching her grow into a more confident person and adapt to an unexpected new profession as she helps solve a series of murders is genuinely rewarding. Meanwhile, the way in which SCOUT’s strange story unfurls is a little more hamfisted (it is a robot nonchalantly flying around Hollywood, after all), but their peppy and endearingly naive demeanor brings vital levity to some otherwise heavy scenarios.All of Murder by Numbers is set during the ‘90s, and developer Mediatonic has done a fantastic job of capturing and then intentionally exaggerating the iconic look and feel of that decade. Neon colors and wild geometric patterns brighten every area you visit, even defining the style of its UI and menus. Be it a TV set, a fancy award show, or just Honor’s messy apartment, every location backdrop feels distinct and lively – despite actually being conspicuously devoid of any characters who aren’t taking part in the foreground conversation.Thankfully, the characters you interact with are also beaming with personality. Most of them – and there are quite a few – are dressed like they could be walking down a Fashion Week runway that same day, and I don’t think I saw a single character I didn’t love the look of. The character designs, both visually and how the roles they play are weaved into the story of each case to guide you along or throw you off the scent, are top notch.That said, Murder by Numbers does make the somewhat tiring decision to have a majority of the people you interact with be strangely agitating. I know you’re investigating a murder, but so many of your conversations will either be angry, impatient, or flippant, often making SCOUT’s charming jokes an oasis of optimism in a dessert of negativity. There are certainly pleasant and empowering moments, but like in life, you gotta go through the lows before you make it to the highs.Overcoming life’s lows is a running theme of the overall plot, a story that’s more mature than the generally lighthearted Phoenix Wright games. We join Honor at what is essentially the darkest point of her life and watch as she struggles to find her footing again – dealing with a shitty ex-husband, gaining confidence in a new job, and unpacking lots of well-traveled baggage. The smaller stories that make up each of Murder by Numbers’ four cases follow similar themes, intertwining with Honor’s journey while being independently entertaining (if somewhat predictable) mysteries to guess at as you interview suspects and gather evidence.While the Phoenix Wright DNA is undeniably clear here, there’s certainly a lot less of its actual active crime-solving. The story is more on rails in Murder by Numbers, and your job is mostly to find evidence and show it to the right person to move that train along. It’s still fun, but you won’t be given those high-stakes opportunities to yell “OBJECTION!” in the same satisfying way, making most of the big revelations feel like the script’s instead of your own.Instead of cleverly connecting evidence, you’ll be doing some quite literal puzzle-solving in the form of Picross challenges. SCOUT will occasionally be given the option to scan for clues, which is a fairly uninteresting task that puts an ugly green filter over a location’s otherwise lovely backdrop and has you hunt for an arbitrary spot where your cross hair turns red. It’s a boring but mercifully short process, and finding something launches you into a Picross puzzle where the real fun begins.Full disclosure: I flippin’ love Picross, and this is some good Picross. If you’re unaware, Picross is a visual puzzle in the same realm as Sudoku – you are given a grid with numbers on each line and have to use those numbers to fill in the grid and reveal an image – in this case, a piece of evidence SCOUT is scanning. That “scanning” flavor is really just an excuse to shoehorn in these puzzles, but it’s a cute excuse all the same.While Murder by Numbers is missing a couple of the desirable features I’ve come to rely on from developer Jupiter’s best-in-class Picross S series (small things, like a timer or a way to easily count squares), it’s the closest competitor that I’ve played in terms of polish. It does a decent job of teaching newcomers as well, with plenty of helpful hint systems if you’re more interested in the story and want to breeze past the puzzles.However, one area it absolutely surpasses Jupiter is music. The songs here are fantastic and varied enough to keep me listening for a long time – by contrast, I rarely play Jupiter’s Picross games without unplugging my headphones and listening to Spotify instead. The best way I can describe Murder by Numbers’ bubbly soundtrack is that anyone who unironically loved the Sugar Rush theme song from Wreck-It Ralph will likely be obsessed. I certainly am.You’ll be listening to these songs a lot too, as there are dozens and dozens of puzzles to solve spread across the four cases and beyond – it took me about 15 hours to beat the story, though a few of those were spent doing optional puzzles as well. After an easier introduction, their difficulty stays in roughly the same neighborhood throughout too. Its 10x10 to 15x15 grid size range is the perfect sweet spot for providing puzzles that were big enough to make me think without ever threatening to stop me dead in my tracks when I was eager to continue the story.On the flip side, if I just wanted to solve some Picross puzzles, progressing through the cases unlocks loads of optional ones in the main menu. I’d often dip into these when I needed a break from the dialogue, which made for a welcome retreat. However, unlocking them is strangely tied to a “score” for each case puzzle, which is basically determined by whether or not you use hints. I wish I could revisit specific case puzzles after finishing that case, or see any I may have missed within it, because otherwise unlocking the last of the optional puzzles means annoyingly replaying the entirety of that case.
Fire Emblem: Three Houses Expansion Pass DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/fire-emblem-three-houses-expansion-pass-dlc-review|Every so often, anime series will get a spinoff movie that takes place outside of the events of the main series. They can be fun and entertaining, but they’ll almost certainly never bring up the main story, and you may end up wondering if these extra adventures ever really happened at all. The Fire Emblem: Three Houses Expansion Pass DLC feels very similar to those movies. While most of the seven new missions that make up its modestly-sized side story are engaging and fairly challenging in their own right, the way they are woven into the original plot doesn’t feel fully thought out, even if the new characters it brings along are a welcome addition to the cast.The Expansion Pass is made up of a bunch of scattered elements – extra items and new costumes for Byleth (so you can finally run around the Monastery without your sleeves flapping about), a few new auxiliary missions, a recruitable fan favorite merchant named Anna, and the ability to invite other characters to join you in a sauna (which is thankfully way less creepy than it could be). None of these features are really must-haves, but they do sprinkle in some fun variety, especially for those in New Game+ looking to try out another route.The side story Cindered Shadows is the real meat of the Expansion Pass, but the way its implemented can be a bit confusing. On one random night at Garreg Mach Monastery, Byleth and their friends chase a mysterious figure deep underground to a hidden and forgotten refuge known as Abyss. Rather than taking place during (or even after) the events of the main story and its separate routes, Cindered Shadows is accessed outside of your normal save file entirely. The strange side effect of this is that its handful of missions give you a preset group of characters (including Byleth and all the house leaders) to fight with, all as specific advanced classes at a predetermined level. Since the side story doesn’t follow the month-to-month format of monastery life, you aren’t really able to customize your team – it’s understandable, but also disappointingly limits replayability.Cindered Shadows really shines best as a grueling gauntlet of battles. With limited funds, weapons, and units, these missions offer a healthy amount of challenge even on normal mode. Several of the fights even feature objectives beyond just routing an enemy force, which I was very happy to see since inventive battle parameters were something that the main story was sorely lacking. One such mission has you retreading a map seen earlier, but in a vastly different context. Where previously you were slowly battling up narrow corridors, this time you’re being chased by overwhelming odds, and must dash through several gates with all of your units before they close.By turning the tables on my expectations for how to overcome enemies, I was constantly kept on my toes, excitedly changing my entire strategy multiple times to solve problems I didn’t think I’d be facing. That said, I do wish the tail end of Cindered Shadows didn’t rely on re-using maps we’ve already seen in the main story quite as much, given how good its new maps turned out. Luckily, the final fight (avoiding spoilers) helps make up for this by taking the battle somewhere I’ve always wanted to fight in.Nintendo has been leaning into the season pass DLC model a lot recently, but compared to something like Breath of the Wild Expansion Pass or Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’s first Fighter Pass, the content and missions you’re getting in Fire Emblem’s feels decidedly sparse. However, it’s not that simple, as most of this Expansion Pass is deliberately designed to unlock items, costumes, facilities, and characters that can be easily accessed across all save files – and that can definitely breathe new life into a New Game+ run for one of Three Houses’ many routes, or even give your first run more features to check out.The Cindered Shadows side story provides some good content, but it’s only the tip of the iceberg for what you’re getting access to in the longer run. The ability to add several new characters to my roster - all of whom have lost items to find, skill to learn, tea parties to attend, and support conversations to unlock - had me genuinely excited to revisit the main story once again to experience these new elements.The secret shanty town called Abyss also felt like a bit of a let-down in some regards. It tries to act as a mini Garreg Mach to explore between missions, but since there’s no activity points to spend or time to study, you really can’t do much aside from talking to the four new recruitable characters known as the Ashen Wolves. In order to find new activities, you’ll have to swap from the side story to the main story and revisit Abyss, and then unlock new facilities from an “Influencer” using in-game currency. These new activities - like viewing how your characters’ stats have progressed, or recycling unwanted items for something other than gold - aren’t exactly ground-breaking, but they do provide some nice quality of life additions for when you want to maximize your potential.I ended up enjoying the new characters far more than I thought I would, as the side stories do a great job of showcasing their diverse personalities and their combat prowess alike. Balthus, Hapi, Constance, and Yuri each bring something different to the table, both in the stories they reveal and in the way they utilize their personal abilities and the four new classes they level up into. Both the War Monk and Trickster classes give a lot more love to hybrid melee classes that can heal in a pinch, while the Valkyrie and Dark Flier give more magic-friendly options on a mount. Sadly, the fan-favorite Dark Flier class no longer gains the ability to move and attack again after defeating an opponent on your turn, which I was sort of looking forward to.I particularly enjoyed chatting and fighting alongside the group’s leader, Yuri. He feels like the fully realized shrewd-yet-mischievous schemer that Fire Emblem tried to make Claude out as (nothing against Claude, he just turned out to be too nice of a guy to fill that role), and Yuri’s ability as a Trickster to warp and change places with another unit make him incredibly valuable for getting units where they need to go. Meanwhile, the odd and sometimes silly personality quirk of Constance makes her either stronger indoors or more guarded outdoors, and is even disturbingly reflected in how she acts when having tea outside!Cindered Shadows manages to be entertaining enough in the story it tells, even if it raises more questions than it answers. It was also nice to see it tie into Byleth’s backstory, though considering the results of the adventure, I found it surprising and a bit disappointing that characters like Jeralt and Sothis had absolutely nothing to add to such a personal tale. Just like so many of those anime movies, its events feel unnaturally walled off, never to be mentioned again.Completing this side story does translate into unlocking characters, classes, and activities for all of your main story save files, but I never felt like this was handled as well as it could have been. For starters, you’ll be able to unlock the four characters to potentially be recruited in the main game. This can be done as early as Chapter 2 even though the events of Cindered Shadows seem to take place right after Chapter 4, and if all of your save files are already in part two of the campaign then they won’t appear at all.What’s more, the first time you talk to each of them, they’ll have no recollection of ever meeting you – or even the events of Cindered Shadows – but will also have somehow heard all about you and have no qualms joining you if you’ve completed enough missions. Similarly, everyone else at Garreg Mach seems to have nothing to say about you bringing up some random exiled kids from the dungeons to train up and go to war with you. It doesn’t make recruiting them any less fun, but it does make an otherwise engaging story come off like some sort of hallucination.
Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/mega-man-zerozx-legacy-collection-review|Man oh (mega) man do I love this collection. Its six excellent Mega Man spin-off games bring with them exactly the kind of gameplay and story my body craves and I’m thrilled at how well they hold up and stand on their own. But it’s the extras, including a new competitive mode with online leaderboards, that really seals the deal.Mega Man and Mega Man X are some of my favorite series in all of gaming, but I slept on the Mega Man Zero series when it came to Game Boy Advance starting in 2002 and first realized what I was missing when the Zero Collection came out on DS in 2010. The Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection for Nintendo Switch, PS4, Xbox One, and Steam is even better, because it brings all four of the original Mega Man Zero GBA games and both DS games into one convenient package. They're wonderful.If you're not familiar with the plot of the Mega Man Zero series, here's a quick rundown: 100 years after the events of the Mega Man X series, legendary warrior Zero is reactivated to help fight in the war between humans and Reploids, a race of human-like robots based on the original Mega Man X.Mega Man ZX and Advent are set even further in the future, in the year 25XX, when humans and Reploids exist in harmony... until the revival of the Mavericks. Throughout the entire series there's a lot of talk of cyber-elves and Neo Arcadia, Bio-Metals, Reploids, E-Crystals, sacrifice, and betrayal… in other words, it rules pretty hard. It's exactly the kind of corny, jargon-heavy anime storyline I love in my video games. Unfortunately dialogue is largely unskippable, which can be real annoying when you're trying to beat a boss.The gameplay itself follows the Mega Man Zero formula, and on Switch it feels great in both handheld mode and on my TV. Holding down the R-button to fire the alternate weapon on the Joy-Con doesn't feel the best, but the Pro Controller is a much better fit. You can remap the controls to fit your preferred playstyle, which is a welcome option.None of these old-school platformers are easy, but to help remedy any of the frustration Capcom has added two new options to ease the sting of repeated failure. Save-Assist drops save locations at key points in the levels, meaning you can lose to a boss and start right back up again from the nearest save point instead of starting the whole level over like back in the day. These aren't save states, though, so they still require a certain amount of raw skill if you want to make it through the levels.There's also a “casual mode” which removes the threat of instant-death from spikes and pits and beefs up your character and weapons. Casual mode has to be set at the beginning of a game, so you need to be committed to your choice: you can't switch back and forth between normal and casual modes. I have no problem admitting I played with the Save-Assist mode turned on, but only tried out Casual Mode for the purposes of this review. I have my pride.On modern displays, the Zero/ZX series' pixel art graphics are absolutely beautiful. There are three different filters to choose from: a "soft" filter blurring the pixels a bit, "no filter," showing off every pixel in its full, razor-sharp crispness, and a filter that makes the graphics look like they're on a GBA or DS screen. That last one puts a very subtle, but noticeable, static effect on the screen, giving it just a hint of old-school grittiness inherent in earlier handheld displays. It's far and away my preferred way to play.Apart from the filters, there are different screen layouts you can choose from, the number of which differs whether you're playing Mega Man Zero or ZX games. The ZX games, originally released on DS, have several layout options for the DS' second screen, but there's no portrait mode for use on the Switch, which is a massive bummer. The two DS games would benefit enormously from compatibility with something like the Flip Grip, a $12 plastic device that allows you to hold the Switch sideways. Tons of other retro games on Switch support the vertical orientation, including individual games on collections like the SNK 40th Anniversary and SEGA Ages. Capcom, if you're reading this, please patch in a vertical orientation for ZX and ZX Advent in handheld mode!There are also loads of wallpapers to choose from, and I didn't find a bad one in the bunch, to be honest. The Zero/ZX art style is a personal favorite, so I found myself swapping out wallpapers fairly regularly just to enjoy a change of scenery.When a collection has games as strong as these, it lives or dies by the quality of its extra content, and I'm happy to say Mega Man Zero/ZX Legacy Collection does... a decent job. My one gripe is it plays it pretty safe: it has exactly the kind of bonus content you've come to expect at this point, and only scratches the surface of the series' history. I would love to see more in-depth bonus features delving into the series' development.There is a massive gallery of art for all six games, with high-resolution images available to scroll through and enjoy. There are also bonus cards you unlock through playing, and you can activate them to unlock extras in the games themselves. For example, turning on some of the earlier bonus cards adds plants, paintings, and other touches to the Resistance Base in Mega Man Zero 3. It's a cool cosmetic touch I didn't expect, and with 100 unlockable cards there are many more secrets I haven't unlocked.On top of the bonus art, the soundtracks for every single game are accessible from the main menu right from the start, so you can cycle through your favorites (my absolute favorite is Departure from Mega Man Zero 2, followed by Green Grass Gradation from Mega Man ZX).The new Z-Chaser mode is a competitive speed-running mode with online leaderboards. It's really well done, with the ability to choose your "ghost" from a selection of other, actual players who've set records and compete against them for glory. If you'd rather compete locally, Z-Chaser has a head-to-head mode, too. Even though I'm not into competitive speedrunning at all, I did find myself enjoying running Mega Man Zero levels against the ghost of an online stranger.
The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance Tactics Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/the-dark-crystal-age-of-resistance-tactics-review|Spoiler Note: The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance Tactics follows the same plot as its Netflix TV series counterpart. While this review is spoiler-free and the gameplay and screenshots shown were picked to avoid giving anything away, keep that in mind if you haven’t seen the show and want to go in completely fresh.It’s 2020, but Netflix is still banging the drum for licensed tie-in games. Like Stranger Things 3: The Game before it, The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance Tactics morphs the streaming network’s 2019 prequel TV series to Jim Henson’s The Dark Crystal into game form – this time as a tactical RPG akin to Fire Emblem or Final Fantasy Tactics. It twists Age of Resistance into a linear, combat-heavy experience, but ends up feeling like little more than a hollow puppet of an RPG used to capitalize on a beloved franchise. It’s passable enough to trigger some Pavlovian response from both my love of tactics games and The Dark Crystal series, but left me wanting in both regards once I really saw what it had to offer.In the interest of avoiding spoilers, I’ll say that The Dark Crystal Tactics covers the same general plot arc as the Age of Resistance show. Like Stranger Things 3: The Game, many missions are pulled right from sequences in the show, and new, well-drawn comic-strip cutscenes retell key scenes with some flair. Despite this, the story told here pales in comparison to the TV version. These moments, both interactive and hand-drawn, are truncated in ways that seem tailored to elicit memories of when you watched the show, rather than actually tell its story. In between the very clear nods to Age of Resistance, the plot moves far too quickly through strings of dialogue shown on the world map between missions. I found it difficult to follow, even after watching the first few episodes just before I started playing.As a result, even the centerpiece moments like boss fights with the most prominent Skeksis from the show, feel hollow. All the key characters – Gelfling, Skeksis, and otherwise – get a chance to stand in the spotlight, but there’s next to no time spent on character development. If you aren’t excited by the sight of them alone, controlling or fighting them isn’t going to add much to the equation. Even allowing for the liberties you have to take when condensing a full season of plot into a roughly 15-to-20-hour combat-focused video game, this version of the story feels like a hurried summary you’d get from a friend – it hits the crucial details and can be enticing at times, but never captures the emotion of any important moments.Setting aside its capacity for Dark Crystal fan service, The Dark Crystal Tactics also evoked a bit of my nostalgia for tactical RPGs, particularly original PlayStation-era games like Final Fantasy Tactics and Vandal Hearts. Though its art style is not retro by any means – it’s got a muddy, overly rendered look that’s more functional than stylish – its turn-based combat laden with RPG-style abilities and tiled maps full of environmental hazards and gimmicks definitely is. The Dark Crystal Tactics gets the basics of that experience right, with a strong emphasis on using skills to get the upper hand over enemies that will likely beat you if you just trade blows until someone dies.More than many other strategy RPGs, The Dark Crystal Tactics also emphasizes turn order and timing as a means of controlling a battle. A long bar at the top of the screen shows the next 10 character turns, helping you to predict your enemies’ movements and plan ahead. There are also a decent number of skills that allow you to move an ally’s next turn up or push an enemy’s back, giving you the ability to not only take stock of turn order, but manipulate it to your advantage. Any character can also refrain from attacking or using an ability to speed up their next turn, which cleverly incentivizes careful play over taking wild swings. Predicting enemy behavior is a cornerstone of all tactics and strategy games, but The Dark Crystal Tactics puts it front and center.But while the combat can offer some interesting decisions, even at its best it’s dragged down by poorly designed menus that take far longer to navigate than they should. You cannot, for example, cycle through characters in the jobs or equipment menus, but instead must select each character, then choose what aspect of their loadout to alter one by one. In combat, you have to select “move” from a radial menu to move, rather than just clicking on a character as it works in nearly any other game from the genre. These inefficiencies, combined with fairly long load times on Switch, make navigating menus both in and out of battle tedious to the point where I sometimes avoided tinkering with my party’s skills just to save myself the slog.The Dark Crystal Tactics' greatest strength is its progression, which is clearly a smaller-scale riff on the job system from Final Fantasy Tactics. In addition to level, each of your Gelfling and Podling fighters gains stats and abilities by choosing and leveling up their class or “job.” Though the job tree is small – there are 12 classes, most of which adhere to broad roles like Mender (healer) and Paladin (offense-focused melee fighter) – there’s a lot of room for customization. Each person in your squad can only choose a finite number of skills: three from their current, primary job, and two more from a secondary job. By the time a character hits job level 10, the threshold for advancing, they’ll have learned way more than three skills, so it’s on you to choose skills that fit a role on your team.Moreover, the classes are all complementary and feature very little overlap, so there’s always a strong incentive to stay in a lower class rather than absent-mindedly advancing up the ladder. Since you only bring four or five people into each fight, it’s impossible to create a flawless team, so you need to assemble your character loadouts with an eye towards specific sets of skills and an overall gameplan for how those skills combine.However, the system works better in theory than it does in practice. With such strict loadout limitations, some of the skills become infinitely better than others, limiting character rotation greatly. For example, many of the most powerful attack abilities for Soldiers, like “Double Strike,” require you to mark enemies first. Mark is a basic Scout ability, so I was compelled to keep the Scout job as a primary or secondary for one or two characters at all times. While I found myself wishing I had access to other abilities, particularly passive and movement-related skills, they’re never as essential as the few I grew to rely on.Over time, new battle conditions will force you to mix things up, but even that causes frustration. You’ll run into bosses that are immune to the status effects you usually inflict; Poison swamps demand skills that cure debuffs; Beach maps with rising tides require extra speed. There are also plenty of missions that require you to focus on an objective other than combat, like getting your team to an exit or freeing Gelfling prisoners from cages, which push you to balance engaging an enemy and achieving your goals. None of these twists are very interesting or creative, but I appreciated the commitment to environmental mechanics and theme missions to keep things fresh. On the other hand, that commitment sometimes lead to boring situations where I’d have to spend a dozen extra turns slowly moving to an objective even after defeating all the enemies.In a perfect world, your entire 14-character roster would be leveled up and properly equipped at all times to allow you to swap out different fighters to match each situation. However, since your characters only level up in combat, bringing in someone with a skill you unexpectedly need requires a lot of grinding optional battles to whip those backups into shape. It rarely feels worth the significant effort required, and I instead found myself trying to rejigger my default five or six squad members to the best of my ability whenever a level had a hard counter for my usual gameplan.Though it wasn’t an insurmountable issue, every setback in The Dark Crystal Tactics feels like a disproportionately big inconvenience. Outside of the laborious menus, The Dark Crystal Tactics also somehow relies exclusively on an auto-save system and does not provide a way to quick-save in the middle of a battle. On Switch, you can always pause by putting the console to sleep, but your save reverts to the last time you were on the world map if you quit. Retrying a mission after a death (or when you quit out, since there’s no easy option to restart) requires you to sit through multiple loads, which can lead to a lot of downtime if you get stuck.For another Netflix show tie-in game, watch our review of Stranger Things 3: The Game above.It’s also worth pointing out that the pre-launch Switch version of The Dark Crystal Tactics used for this review suffered from consistent bugs. Chief among them, backing out to the Switch home menu and returning without quitting would cause hitching and, in some cases, force it to crash entirely. Certain late-game cutscenes sped through dialogue and had faulty audio. There’s also a story map late in the campaign where highlighting certain panels would discolor a large portion of the screen. As with any game these days, it’s entirely possible that these issues will be patched out, but they were notably more consistent and impactful than the pre-release hiccups I’m used to seeing.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate - Byleth DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/super-smash-bros-ultimate-byleth-dlc-review|After the impressive and surprising list of DLC characters Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’s first Fighter’s Pass has brought so far, the most recent and final addition, Byleth from Fire Emblem: Three Houses, feels like an incredibly safe pick – in more ways than one. They’re not as mechanically complex as the likes of Hero or Terry Bogard, and not as fan-servingly exciting as Joker or Banjo & Kazooie. And yet, a bit of vanilla to round out this already vibrant pack of extra fighters doesn’t stop Byleth from proudly standing out among their Fire Emblem peers and the rest of Ultimate’s extensive roster.As an anime-looking sword-wielder, Byleth certainly has their work cut out for them in trying to convince people to pick them up over any of the other similar options – and thankfully, they’ve got plenty to work with in that regard. Out of the five other Fire Emblem reps (seven if you count Echo Fighters), Byleth manages to be the only one to showcase the strategic weapon variety that’s core to the series. Using special weapons from Three Houses known as Heroes’ Relics, Byleth can seamlessly swap out their whip-sword for a hefty axe, lengthy spear, or powerful bow, and each has their own unique strengths that make them a ton of fun to smash your opponents with.Rather than have them haphazardly attached to various moves, Byleth’s different weapons are smartly mapped to your directional inputs. While their neutral special incorporates the bow, side attacks utilize their spear, down attacks summon the axe, and lighter swipes and overhead moves uses the whip-sword. Beyond each one looking awesome when summoned in a fight, the directional based context gives Byleth a feeling of smart cohesion that’s incredibly easy to pick up and understand.Byleth’s moveset is also one of the big reasons why this DLC fighter seems fairly simple compared to the others that have arrived post-launch – for better and for worse. Where Terry’s button inputs could be too technical for some, Hero’s random moves and magic meter could feel too chaotic, and the meters and consumables of Joker and Banjo too much to keep track of, Byleth forgoes all of it. Their “gimmick” essentially lies in the simplicity of a man/woman-at-arms, with a weapon for every situation, providing a different type of challenge in knowing when to use the right one rather than learning how to wield them at all.It’s a question that’s been on everyone’s mind since game director Masahiro Sakurai’s big reveal: why close out Fighters Pass 1’s list of impossible-to-predict guests with Nintendo’s latest Fire Emblem protagonist? The answer is likely the most obvious one – because they are Nintendo’s latest protagonist, and rightly deserve a place on the roster. When Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’s launch roster was revealed, it seemed like every main character from all of Nintendo’s biggest games were there – including the likes of the Inklings and Isabelle, both of whom had gained increased popularity since the last Smash Bros. game. It's entirely possible the only reason we’ve seen so many guest characters as DLC is because we also haven’t been introduced to that many new Nintendo protagonists since Ultimate launched. Out of Nintendo’s 2019 lineup, Byleth was the only real new addition to a big franchise that also lent themself toward being a fighter. (Sorry, Gooigi, maybe you’ll make the Echo Fighter roster someday.) If Three Houses had been developed and released a year or two earlier, there’s a good chance Byleth would have been in the base roster as many other Fire Emblem heroes were in the past. As for why Fire Emblem has so many representatives in Smash - unlike other big Nintendo franchises, Fire Emblem is one of the few that regularly changes its cast of main characters for each game (Granted, having three reps for Fire Emblem Awakening was a bit too much, even considering Echo Fighters).If Byleth does have a gaping flaw, it’s commitment. While each weapon type can deal a staggering amount of damage when they connect, they’ll often leave Byleth wide open to counters from a skilled or perceptive opponent. The bow, known as Failnaught, can be charged up to deal devastating precision damage at long range, but once you’ve charged past a certain threshold, you can’t get out of the move early. Similarly, aiming your attacks downward with the axe Amyr can demolish anyone standing nearby, but the lengthy startup and finish (and the time you’re left vulnerable after landing with a downward aerial strike) means you’ll either have to be very good at predicting an opponent, or drop in on a group of distracted fighters. The slow nature of these kinds of “unsafe” moves might not turn a lot of heads in the competitive scene, but it may entice newer players who aren’t afraid of making mistakes with an easy-to-grasp moveset and tons of strong attacks.Even without the additional weaponry, Byleth’s Sword of the Creator (which is generally linked to up-attacks, but can also act as a sort of default for many others) holds some very interesting and fun properties. Able to be used like a whip, it gives Byleth’s quicker moves and upward attacks more options, thanks in part to their unique recovery move. While other characters like Zero Suit Samus and Joker can use similar tools to grab or hook onto ledges and pull themselves up, Byleth’s up-B can also latch onto opponents and use them as a stepping stone to launch high up while sending their target screaming downwards once they’ve hit a certain damage threshold – which makes it deliciously evil to use off the stage, yanking poor souls down to their doom before they can react. I was even pleased to find some clever applications when used above platforms, giving me different options to follow up with other moves depending on how damaged my opponent was, or how far my opponent bounced back off the ground below me. That said, smaller ledges have sometimes been my downfall, as the Sword of the Creator has either been unwilling or unable to hook onto tiny platforms to save me from plummeting and the move itself gives no recovery if nothing connects.As part of Byleth’s character pack, there’s also the addition of a host of new themed Spirit Battles. These are as ingeniously crafted as ever, and Three Houses fans will appreciate all the fun details – like Dimitri’s Spirit Battle including a tough Ganondorf in place of Dimitri’s stalwart bodyguard, Dedue. That being said, those who haven’t already played through the Three Houses story may wish to hold off on some of the tougher Spirit Battles, which inadvertently spoil some plot points by way of the battle’s surprise mechanics.As for the stage, Garreg Mach Monastery feels surprisingly bland. While stages that tour around a large location usually offer up an array of different battlefields to fight in and adapt to, each of the monastery’s four areas are flat, walk-off arenas with the bare minimum inclusion of a few small temporary platforms. Even the guest appearances by students and house leaders of each of the three houses seem a bit dull - especially when spotted standing in an otherwise deserted grand hall. Garreg Mach Monastery isn’t exactly a disappointing place for a fight, but when you look at the variety of architecture in other Fire Emblem levels like Castle Siege and the Coliseum, the monastery just feels stale in comparison. Luckily, the inclusion of some of the best music that Three Houses has to offer won't go unnoticed. The upbeat tempo of Fódlan Winds and The Edge of Dawn mesh perfectly with frantic large battles, while songs like The Apex of the World and Between Heaven and Earth give 1v1s a legendary feel.
Mortal Kombat 11 - The Joker DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/mortal-kombat-11-the-joker-dlc-review|With previous appearances in Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe, Injustice, and Injustice 2 The Joker is basically a Netherrealm fighting game veteran at this point. That’s significant because his newest iteration in Mortal Kombat 11 is easily his best one yet, absolutely nailing The Joker’s penchant to make you laugh one moment, and then think “oh my god, this sick, sadistic freak” the next. Mortal Kombat 11’s M rating certainly helps enable that, but The Joker is also simply a ton of fun to play, resulting in one of Mortal Kombat 11’s best DLC characters so far.The best thing about The Joker from an aesthetic point of view is the look of his moveset. It consists mostly of techniques familiar from his appearances in other games, but with some new and wildly entertaining spins. His gun is now a Batman hand puppet that Joker will actually talk to if you hold down the button and delay the shot; His short-range knife from Injustice is now a cane that he wields with the flourish of a circus performer; and his gas canisters are now exploding jack-in-the-boxes that are used in all new fun ways.Above all else, Joker just looks like he’s having fun out there, and it makes him really fun to play as a result.Of course, it also helps that, upon first impression, he seems really, really strong. His cane gives him a far-reaching high attack that is excellent for whiff punishes and establishing his range in the neutral; he’s got great zoning in his first competitive variation, fantastic set ups in his second, and huge combo damage potential in his third. Each variation seems uniquely viable so far, which is great because it allows for a lot of versatility in how Joker is played.My personal favorite variation is the third one, which outfits him with a launching special move in his “Kapow” spring-loaded boxing glove, allowing him to convert big damage off of his combo strings. In addition to that, this variation also has a one-of-a-kind gas can special move that allows him to drop a trail of gasoline and ignite it for big damage over time.Joker is appropriately very mind game heavy, with the ability to hold many of his special moves and release them right as the opponent makes a move. Even his Fatal Blow can be held and canceled, a quality shared only by Johnny Cage, which allows for all sorts of nastiness, especially considering that he has a krushing blow on his forward throw that can be utilized when the fatal blow is on cooldown. It’s also one of the most satisfying krushing blows in the game, featuring the Joker literally exploding his opponent’s balls (or just general nether region for those lacking.)This allows The Joker to be a character who is extremely good at comebacks since he becomes a lot more dangerous when he’s in fatal blow territory. Any block string can become a guessing game between whether he will fatal blow, cancel it into a krushing blow throw, or into another combo. Not to mention, it also gives his less combo heavy variations a way to deal substantial damage by using the fatal blow cancel to extend otherwise impossible combos.On top of all that, he also has very solid damage without even needing meter thanks to a fast meterless launching combo across every variation, a great far-reaching low poke, and a fantastic uppercut with great range,All of this strength isn’t balanced by any single glaring weakness, but a bunch of small inconveniences that you’ll just have to deal with when you decide to choose Joker. He doesn’t really have any moves that leave him with advantage on block, forcing you to always give up your turn when your pressure is stopped; he doesn’t have a fantastic way to close the distance if the opponent wants to keep him out; and his otherwise excellent poke with his cane hits high, which can be easily ducked under and uppercutted if it’s scouted.Even outside of his combat look and feel, Joker is similarly excellent. Veteran voice actor Richard Epcar reprises his role from Injustice and Injustice 2 and turns in an exceptional performance as the clown prince of crime, expertly evoking the same psychotic glee that makes Mark Hamill’s take on the character so iconic.
Kentucky Route Zero Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/kentucky-route-zero-review|Kentucky Route Zero’s fifth and final act launches on PC on January 28 alongside its TV Edition, which brings the entire story to PS4, Xbox One, and Switch. This review is taking a fresh look at Kentucky Route Zero as a whole now that all five acts are complete.I couldn’t stop taking screenshots as I played Kentucky Route Zero. Almost every location in this surreal adventure game could be printed out and framed on the wall as a work of art all its own, but it’s the strange and twisting story that fans have been following for nearly seven years that ties them all together. That mystical story can feel appropriately mysterious at times and confusingly arbitrary at others, but it’s a heartwarming journey I’m very glad to have taken.Kentucky Route Zero is ostensibly a point-and-click adventure game, but to call it that can be misleading. It’s only tangentially in the same realm as classics like Monkey Island or Grim Fandango, replacing item collection and puzzle solving with reams of intimate dialogue and an impressive amount of choice in how your characters navigate every conversation.You begin Act 1 as Conway, a delivery truck driver trying to get to an address that seemingly doesn’t exist on any map, apparently only accessible through a peculiar hidden highway called the Zero. While that simple delivery goal is your motivation through Kentucky Route Zero’s five acts, Conway slowly accumulates companions along the way, each an interesting character in their own right. Their presence lets you further shape the conversations they are faced with.One of my favorite things about Kentucky Route Zero is how frequently it shakes up the way its dialogue is delivered, constantly adding to its bag of tricks. Some scenes may be straightforward conversations from a classic point-and-click side view, while others are entirely from the perspective of security guards watching your characters through security footage and discussing the scene in the past tense.Two of my favorite scenes include an Interlude between Acts 2 and 3 where you’re watching a play from the perspective of a silent actor on stage, and another later on where you control a cat as they run around and listen to your characters’ conversations instead of moving those characters directly. Since Kentucky Route Zero is almost entirely about finding and then clicking through dialogue options, this endless creativity is a vital reason the roughly eight hours it took me to reach the credits stayed fresh.That said, things certainly start simpler, with the creative storytelling increasing greatly as the campaign progresses. While Kentucky Route Zero was initially released episodically, I had never played any of it until now, and the age of its first acts is abundantly clear. Act 1 and 2 were released in 2013, and their presentation and structure can pale in comparison to the latter acts at – especially when played in 2020 after games like Night in the Woods, which clearly took a page out of this book. (It also doesn’t help that Conway’s leg is broken for most of both acts, causing you to move at a frustratingly slow pace.)In a very real sense, playing Kentucky Route Zero is like taking a walk through time, each episode growing more ambitious and unexpected than the last. As a result, every act is delightfully surprising even when played back to back – fully hooking me around Act 3 when it starts diverging further from a standard point-and-click structure. Still, the charming characters and captivating writing kept me interested the whole time, broken leg and all.One of the first tasks you are given in Kentucky Route Zero is to unlock a computer, but this simple activity sets the stage for what you’ll be doing essentially the entire game. The computer’s owner tells Conway the password is some poem he enters through muscle memory, comically suggesting Conway just starts typing to see what happens. No matter what lines you pick from the pre-written options, you’ll always enter the right password – that’s the basis of this entire adventure.As you travel the Zero and hunt for your MacGuffin delivery address, you’ll constantly be picking dialogue options for your characters, not knowing the “correct” answer to any of them – as soon as you choose, your answer becomes fact and, narratively, has always been fact. These choices can be as mundane as the name of Conway’s dog (my sweet old girl was named Blue) or as deep as if a character has siblings and what the context of their relationship is to them. A particularly magical moment in Act 3 has you picking the lyrics to a gorgeous song as it’s sung back to you in real time, coupled with more beautiful visuals. It easily stands as one of my favorite scenes in a game in a long time.The choices you make never really change the outcome of the plot, but they do drastically shift what story you’ll hear as you progress. And once your group of weary travelers grows and offers more perspectives for you to inhabit, dialogue can change even more. Instead of just choosing Conway’s responses, you can often decide which character replies – whether its Conway himself, the more forthright Shannon (your other lead protagonist and the first to join his journey), or a whimsically imaginative child named Ezra. Either option generally locks off the other responses entirely – I’m sure there’s a whole novel’s worth of dialogue I didn’t see.By the final act, you’ll control so many people that you’re effectively just having conversations with yourself. But, somehow, Kentucky Route Zero trained me up to that point so that, miraculously, it felt entirely natural. Besides, the discussions were so often engaging and interesting that I loved picking conversation paths and marching merrily down them of my own volition – it’s the same as writing poetry for a computer password without ever knowing the “right” answer, just on a significantly more elaborate scale.But while Kentucky Route Zero’s writing is consistently strong, the way in which it’s delivered sometimes isn’t – the biggest problem being an overabundance of exposition. I adored that this is a strange and mysterious tale that doesn’t outright explain much of its world, but then random characters you meet briefly in a gas station would abruptly launch into their life’s story in direct opposition of that style. These dumps of backstory are always well-written, just hamfistedly presented, which caused Kentucky Route Zero’s already slow and deliberate pacing to stutter at timesWhile Kentucky Route Zero often focuses on smaller story moments like this, the larger meat of its tale is a touching one, too. I ultimately took it as a story about home, both what home actually means and how people find it, either intentionally or unexpectedly. That theme recurs throughout without being shoved in your face, and I was fully invested in Conway and Shannon’s journey whether I tried to read deeper into it or not.The folk that join them along the way are worth getting attached to, as well, particularly Junebug and Johnny the musical duo – who are robots, I guess? – even if how or why any of these people start following you is never really justified. A couple of the big character moments were similarly under-explained and seemed frustratingly avoidable from the perspective of an onlooker – this certainly didn’t happen often, but sometimes I wished for the level of control Kentucky Route Zero’s constant dialogue choices make it feel like you have. Without spoiling anything, a few of the threads of key characters are left unsatisfyingly hanging by the time the credits roll, too.This isn’t really a story that wants (or even needs) to tie up all of those threads, and thankfully for the most part that works in its favor. Apart from that handful of incongruous disappointments, the end of this seven-year story was really quite lovely, leaning into many of Kentucky Route Zero’s strengths without ruining the wonder at its heart with over explanation – a fate likely worse than the smaller missteps it did make along the way.
Psikyo Shooting Stars Alpha Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/psikyo-shooting-stars-alpha-review|I doubt that, when Nintendo was developing the Switch, its designers were thinking, “This thing will be great for retro arcade shooters!” But thanks to its built-in screen and detachable Joy-Cons, this thing is absolutely great for retro arcade shooters, and Psikyo Shooting Stars Alpha happens to be a no-frills collection of six ‘90s and early 2000s (mostly) classics of that genre.Many arcade shmups used a vertical monitor with dimensions that are drastically different than our modern widescreen televisions. Porting them to home consoles usually means relegating the playfield to just the middle slice of your big TV, bookending the sides with static wallpaper. But the magic of the Nintendo Switch’s screen is that it can be vertical if you pop the Joy-Cons off, and many arcade shooters released on the platform – these included – allow you to rotate the screen to take advantage of this unique feature.Psikyo’s formula is well-represented by most of the selections included in Shooting Stars: you soar through waves of enemies, dodge bullets, blast huge bosses, and try to secure yourself a decent spot on the leaderboard. Most of these are among the best the genre has to offer, thanks to exciting moment-to-moment aerial maneuvers and an attractive art style. Five of these games were previously released on Switch separately, and one of the best of the bunch is making its console debut here. Let’s take aim at each one individually.Strikers is the series for which Psikyo is probably best known. It’s often confused with Capcom’s 19XX games, since both feature vaguely WWII-era vehicles and alien robots disguised as battleships and bombers, and at a glance you can’t always tell the difference. But while the Strikers games are on par with the 19XX games of the ‘90s, they’re quite a bit more fun than the early 19XX games of the ‘80s. This original game in the series offers six different planes with unique weapons, and it’s fun to try all of them out and see which prove most effective for you. I like the Shinden and its powerful bomb attack, myself; despite this plane’s unusual “wings in the back” appearance it’s actually based on a real Japanese WWII plane.The sequel slightly tweaked how your weapons leveled up, but the gameplay is mostly the same (and thus mostly as enjoyable). Four of the six planes are new and different from the original six, and again a lot of fun comes from taking them for their own test flights. Again, they’re based on real-world planes, but its imagination isn’t bound by reality. The Flying Pancake, for example, is a chonky plane that in real life was designed to fly at very low speeds, but here it’s the fastest plane in Strikers 1945 II. Oh, and seeing a speeding train shed its exoskeleton to reveal its final mech form for a boss fight? That’s also fun.Strikers 1945 III – the last and arguably the best in the series – escapes its '90s arcade (and emulator) prison by making its console debut here. Even though it still has 1945 in the title, the vehicles (both friendly and unfriendly) have a much more modern appearance. The gameplay feels faster, more intense, and features some of the series’ coolest bosses, like the hovercraft that turns into a giant mechanical water spider.Although it never got a sequel, Dragon Blaze might be my favorite Psikyo shooter. For one, it has a fantasy setting that is relatively unique to the genre, putting you in the saddle of a dragon mount instead of the cockpit of some plane or spaceship. Also, in addition to your standard shot and bomb attacks, you have the satisfying ability to sic your dragon on an enemy with a powerful bite attack – at the risk of leaving yourself severely underpowered while out of the saddle. That creates a tense dynamic where you have to weave through bullets trying to get in close to large enemies instead of keeping your distance as you so often do in arcade shmups.Although still a top-down shooter, Zero Gunner 2 is quite a bit different than the Striker or Dragon Blaze games. You pilot a helicopter, which is unusual in a shmup, but what really sets it apart is the unique gimmick of the rotation mechanic, which allows you to aim in different directions while you move it around the screen instead of being locked in a forward position. The controls take some getting used to, but once I did Zero Gunner 2 became a satisfyingly unique shooter, and it’s distinctive both within this collection and in Psikyo’s broader catalog.Sol Divide is the only bomb of the bunch. Psikyo tried something drastically different with its fantasy-themed horizontal shooter, but the result is a frustrating and dull affair that lacks the excitement of the other five games. I wouldn’t recommend Sol Divide on its own. Still, in a collection like this, it does provide a curious look at a failed experiment from an otherwise reliable developer.So Psikyo Shooting Stars Alpha includes six games, most of which are good and a couple of which are really, really good. The best way to enjoy the bulk of the collection – the Strikers and Dragon Blaze games – is with your Switch in vertical, or “tate” mode. (And the best way to do that is with the third-party Flip Grip attachment, sold separately.) Those four games all allow you to rotate the screen 90 degrees and maximize your playfield (and enjoyment).And that’s why it’s so frustrating that none of the games will remember your preference for playing in vertical mode. That means every time you start a new game, you have to go into the options and rotate the screen again. It should have been a toggle, like when you let a game know you want to invert the Y-axis controls.Another disappointment is that although you can rotate the gameplay, you can't spin the menus or game selection screens. So checking the options or bouncing out of one game into another finds you awkwardly holding your vertically-rotated Switch on its side – or tilting your head 90 degrees. It seems as though the developers only put in the bare-minimum effort in enabling the vertical mode.“Bare minimum” is an accurate way to describe the entire collection. While most of the games are quite fun and using the Switch’s vertical mode gave me an old-school thrill that’s hard to come by these days, there isn’t anything else in the package to explore. No historical information, no artwork, no option for save states, no rewind function. Other recent classic game collections offer much more in the way of extras that complement the compilation.
AO Tennis 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2020/01/09/ao-tennis-2-review|2018’s AO Tennis may have been a limp first swing that pinged off the frame and dropped well short of the net, but its second attempt at landing in the service box has been delivered with substantially more power and precision. It’s a better-looking, smoother-playing, and more fully-featured simulation of the sport, one that eradicates the bulk – though not the entirety – of the unforced errors made by its undercooked predecessor. There hasn’t been a transformation this radical in the tennis world since Andre Agassi took off his wig.
Mortal Kombat 11 - Sindel DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/11/27/mortal-kombat-11-sindel-dlc-review|Sindel is disgusting. And by that I mean that she’s both a deplorable person and she has some nasty tricks in Mortal Kombat 11 that are sure to make her a huge threat against the rest of the roster. She’s an absolute monster in the mid range, with an overhead that reaches from a football field away that will certainly remind MKX players of Kung Jin; a Krushing Blow on her scream that can whiff punish and delete nearly half your life bar; and a deadly flipping overhead that can quickly close the distance, score a knock down, and put her in range to threaten your wake-up.Fans of Mortal Kombat 9’s Sindel may be surprised to learn that this time around she’s actually not much of a true zoner, which is great because MK11’s got enough of those. MK11’s Sindel’s best range is at mid-screen, where she can threaten with her giant polearm that hits overhead; her chargeable scream, which can be cancelled, enhanced, and will Krushing Blow on a counter hit; and her back + 3, 4 string, which has surprising range and can combo into big damage.This big damage doesn’t come easy, though, because Sindel is not a simple character to use. While they cover huge range, her attacks are not very fast – and her combos, while they hit like a freight train, are not the easiest to land. They’re also generally pretty punishable on block, making her a character that’s great at whiff punishes and catching people sleeping with tricky overheads and lows, but she’s not all that good at putting on pressure, lacking any solid block strings that could keep an opponent on the defensive and guessing.Sindel can also be very sneaky. Her first competitive variation, which is the one I personally have the best time with, has a move called Whip & Flip. This flipping hair whip can be aimed close, medium, or far and allows her to leap over projectiles for a quick overhead throw that gives her free wake up pressure if it lands. But the best part about this move is that she can use it from the air as well, allowing her to alter her jump arc, bait out anti airs, or – if you’re feeling lucky – you can use it after a jump-kick to try to catch an opponent trying to switch to a low block.Her second competitive variation plays completely unlike anything else in Mortal Kombat 11. It revolves around an aerial Banshee Dash that sends a ghost forward in the air and, if it hits, Sindel can spend a bar of meter to instantly teleport to it and start up a jump-in combo. But then it’s also complemented by an ability called Deadly Echo that allows her to cancel a jump in, do a quick air-hop, and do another jump in. It allows for some absolutely crazy combos that are extraordinarily tricky to do, but look stylish as all hell.For those who truly miss Sindel’s zoner-heavy playstyle from MK9, her third competitive variation is the closest thing her latest iteration has to it. She’s got a great low projectile that can duck under opposing projectiles and win trades, an aerial projectile barrage that completely controls the mid-range, and a floating trap that will deal unblockable damage to anyone who gets close to it, allowing her to discourage her opponent from getting anywhere near her, or trap an enemy in a corner with unavoidable damage.Each of these three variations represents an entirely different style of play, and what’s great is that they’re all fun to use and extremely effective in their own way. This is exactly how the variation system is supposed to work.As far as style goes, Netherrealm once again does not disappoint with this reimagining of Sindel. Her hair is obviously the most important feature, and it succeeds at simultaneously looking realistic and otherworldly in the way it grows, shrinks, and wraps around its victims. She’s also got a great selection of unlockable outfits and gear that feel befitting of Mortal Kombat’s premiere Queen.It’s also notable and a bit disappointing that her story ending retcons what has long been the history of her character. It removes any sort of gray area to her personality and essentially just makes her pure evil, flattening a three-dimensional character into a two-dimensional villain.
Pokemon Sword and Shield Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/11/13/pokemon-sword-and-shield-review|Very few things in life can make me as happy as a great Pokemon RPG, and Sword and Shield repeatedly left me in a state of pure, child-like joy. The elated surprise of not knowing what’s coming is something this series does extremely well if you can manage to play it relatively unspoiled (fear not, this review won’t deprive you of that), and I’m glad that sense of wonder is still alive and kicking in Sword and Shield. With every new game in this 23-year-old series, changes big and small are always made, but I’ve never been willing to declare the latest entry the new gold standard for Pokemon because they’ve consistently been a balance of better and worse. But the first mainline game on the Switch has changed that: though there is still no “perfect Pokemon game,” the 40-plus hours I’ve spent with Sword and Shield have left me comfortable with calling them the best Pokemon games I have ever played – and I’ve played ‘em all.Experiencing the avalanche of improvements made me realize just how complacent I’d become with Pokemon mechanics that were, in hindsight, less than ideal. While this series has always been great about introducing new players with thorough tutorials, it seems crazy that experienced players have never been able to skip them until now. Just tell the NPC you know what’s up and they’ll get out of the way and let you get down to the business of catching and training – you can even catch Pokemon without being told how, and doing so automatically skips the tutorial. Likewise, travel across the map has been made fast and convenient, and even connecting with other people is as simple as pressing the Y button. And perhaps most overdue of all, Sword and Shield have killed the sacred cow of the traditional random encounters that have all too often made exploring feel like a slog. All throughout, Sword and Shield feels like it respects your time.Sword and Shield manage to fix all of these problems while leaving Pokemon’s signature charm not just intact, but enhanced by the Switch’s huge graphical leap over the 3DS. I never want to go back.Sword and Shield are extremely familiar and comfortable thanks to a pretty traditional setup: you pick one of three starter Pokemon and then head off across the Galar region to capture and train more, defeat eight unique and exciting gym challenges, and become a Pokemon master over the course of about 40 hours. As always, the deep turn-based combat benefits from the crazy variety of these elemental Pokemon, from their vastly different and shamelessly bizarre appearances to the huge selection of moves they learn to the stats they inherently have. It’s just as wholesome and accessible as ever during the campaign, but hidden stat mechanics and a “secret” end-game of breeding and battling perfect Pokemon give those of us who want to get hardcore with it nearly limitless depth to explore. That’s a difficult balancing act Pokemon has been largely great at handling.[Note: Here's how long it took to beat Pokemon Sword and Shield - three players give their experiences.]All of this is the same old song and dance we’ve seen for the past 23 years, but Sword and Shield roll out some immediate, noticeable changes that make the whole thing just... better. It starts with basic stuff; you can finally skip tutorials if you know what’s up. And you can even start catching Pokemon before being taught how.While previous generations already made the excellent decision to remove HMs, the systems that replaced them have been improved even more here. I thought I’d miss Sun and Moon’s rideable Pokemon when it came to getting around the map, but Sword and Shield’s Rotom Bike and Corviknight Taxi service are so quick, easy, and seamless that they leave the old system in their dust. The Rotom Bike works across both land and water automatically, and the fast-travel system (a giant, scary bird taxi) is unlocked right after the first gym. Using it is as easy as checking the map and choosing a point to go to, with no drawn-out animation involved – your destination is just a brief loading screen away. Plus, there are many more travel points to choose from than usual, as there are multiple Pokemon Centers in larger towns and spots to travel to, both in the middle of routes and the new open-world-ish Wild Area. Backtracking is a breeze.All of these quality-of-life improvements, though fantastic, barely hold a candle to the game-changing new approach to wild Pokemon encounters. Traditional random encounters are gone, replaced by Pokemon who are actually visible and inhabiting the overworld as they do in Let’s Go Pikachu and Eevee – something I’ve wanted in a major Pokemon game for what feels like a decade. (Oh, wait, it has been a decade.) If you don’t touch them, you don’t fight them; simple as that. No longer is every walk across the map like putting on a blindfold and taking a stroll through a minefield.Of course, if you crave the thrill of a random encounter, an exclamation point will occasionally appear in the grass and present you with the option to initiate a surprise battle. Some Pokemon can only appear in this kind of encounter, so there’s still an incentive to roll the dice every so often. But the ability to pass them by if I wasn’t interested at the moment made getting through areas, exploring, and back-tracking significantly more fun and rewarding. I will not miss the unpredictable punishments in the form of a neverending assault of Zubat.Speaking of Zubat, there is no theoretical “Zubat problem,” per se, in Pokemon Sword and Shield. The Galar Region’s native Pokemon are so abundant (sorry, Nintendo won’t let me confirm any numbers yet) with different types that there was never any single species that overcrowded an area. Sure, some Pokemon are more common than others in specific patches of grass or individual caves, but they never wore me down because there was always another area just ahead with a new assortment.Even without going out of my way to seek out everything available, by Route 2 (one of the very first areas in Pokemon Sword and Shield) there were already plenty of Pokemon to encounter, brand-new unrevealed ones and returning faces alike. By the first gym, I was already having a hard time choosing between all of my exciting options. This is usually never a problem for me, but it’s one I’m happy to have now. Let me emphasize, too, that I really love a majority of the new Pokemon, even when some of them elicit this sort of reaction:A big reason for all this choice is the incredibly early introduction of the awesome new Wild Area, which also opens up within the first two hours. It’s a large, open space enclosed by steep cliffs and peppered with groves of trees, lakes, and tiny islands. It’s a little visually bland, but there are some (decorative) ruins to be found and, deeper within, a sandy area with huge rocks. And I was immediately struck by the fact that, for the first time ever in a Pokemon game, the camera here can be freely controlled with the right joystick. That may seem like a ridiculously basic thing to praise in a 2019 video game, but the freedom it offers really is that exciting for long-time players like myself. It’s something I’d like to see in the entirety of the next Pokemon game.The real draw of the Wild Area is its great variety, which is created by the fact that the weather of each of its microregions differs and changes daily, along with the Pokemon that inhabit them. For example, it may be rainy in the Rolling Fields, but snowy in the Dappled Grove right beside it. The extra-strong, over-leveled Pokemon wandering between and above tall grass patches are usually the most interesting – like a huge Snorlax on the other side of a bridge, or a Gyarados in a lake – but these are sometimes so high-level you can’t even catch them, since Gym Badges now determine that cap instead of geographical barriers like in previous games. I once found a level 25 Onix when my team was only around level seven and felt a little robbed. So, I found myself avoiding these Pokemon until I’d earned enough badges, but there were still plenty of cool, catchable finds in the grass – like Gastly, Electrike, and Machop, to name a few.Berry Trees and useful items also respawn randomly each day, along with the new weather and Pokemon. These items, marked by sparkles on the ground, are really useful: they include rare evolutionary items, treasure that can be sold for high prices, curry ingredients, and more. There are even NPCs with a cycling selection of goodies to sell and new Max Raid Battles that pit four trainers against one giant opponent, of which there are multiple new ones each day.All of this flux and dynamic change made me want to revisit the Wild Area often, with each new day and after every new Gym Badge I earned. This natural, voluntary urge to dive back in also meant I seamlessly leveled up appropriately on accident, not because I went out of my way to grind. It gave progression through Sword and Shield a more balanced and smooth feeling than most Pokemon games.The Wild Area takes excessive grinding out of the equation in another way, too: the introduction of Exp. Candy. These items grant – you guessed it – experience points to the Pokemon they’re fed to, and range in sizes from XS to XL. They aren’t too uncommon, either: NPCs in the Wild Area will hand some over occasionally for Watts, the Wild Area’s currency, and they’re earned each time you win a Max Raid Battle. This made experimenting with my team so, so much easier. It’s the type of flexibility I’ve never had in previous Pokemon games, because getting low-leveled Pokemon up to par with a high-leveled team was always such a time-consuming chore. Sun and Moon had the Poke Pelago, but that still took a lot of waiting. Exp. Candies gave me the satisfaction of being able to try out a new Pokemon right now, which let me change up my team with an excitingly unexpected frequency without feeling like I was sacrificing something else to do so (except some effort values). And if I didn’t like the new team member? I could just feed Exp. Candy to the Pokemon I benched and get it caught up again.This exact scenario occurred when I caught a Pokemon I had never seen before in a Max Raid Battle. It was only level 25, compared to my team’s current 45, which isn’t a small gap. For a moment I dreaded the thought of grinding to get it to the point it’d actually be useful, but then I remembered the Exp. Candies and brought it up to speed in moments. It was able to start pulling its weight just a few battles later, and remained on my team through the very end of the campaign.Max Raid Battles were neat little optional sidebars to my adventure, and I always looked forward to seeing what new battles awaited me each time I visited the Wild Area. Raids are categorized with a one- to five-star difficulty rating (or more – five is the highest I’ve seen so far), and those four- and five-star Max Raid Battles can be genuinely challenging. Thankfully, you can retry Max Raid Battles, so if I failed the first time (and I have), I could reformulate my approach for the next attempt.One raid against a Lanturn required me to use a Rhyhorn’s Lightning Rod Ability (yes, I know Manectric would have been better, but I didn’t have one at the moment) to protect my team members from the Lanturn’s Electric-type attacks. In Max Raid Battles, you have to do enough damage to knock out the raid boss in 10 turns, but also only have four faints total between all four Pokemon on your team before you’re knocked out of the battle entirely. This is also why, for this particular battle, I used a Focus Sash to protect my Rhyhorn from the one-hit-KO that was sure to happen with Lanturn’s super powerful Water-type attacks and special abilities. Dynamax Raid Bosses can put up damage barriers, negate stat changes, and sometimes even attack multiple times in a row, forcing you to really prepare for each fight.Frustratingly, I sometimes realized I was simply ill-equipped for a particular challenge – whether I wasn’t a high enough level or I didn’t have the right Pokemon, I occasionally encountered Max Raid Battles I simply couldn’t beat. It’s annoying in the moment, but does create a great incentive to continue leveling up a variety of Pokemon.Since I couldn’t link up with others online like you’ll be able to after release, my Raid parties usually included me, one local friend, and two NPCs. These NPCs were randomly chosen each new battle, which means sometimes they’re entirely useless and other times come in pretty clutch. Unfortunately, what you’ll get is unpredictable, but I look forward to connecting and coordinating with other real people once the servers are live.While I can’t speak for the online functionality, connecting locally is easy and intuitive. It’s comparable to X and Y’s Player Search System, but maybe even better (it’s been a while, y’all). The Y-Comm, used for linking up with other trainers, earned its name because bringing up its menu is as simple as pressing the Y button. From here, you can broadcast a request to battle Pokemon, trade Pokemon or League Cards, or search for a Surprise Trade (similar to previous gen’s Wonder Trade.)You can go about your business after putting the request out in the aether and will be automatically linked once someone else puts the same request up. Notifications of local player’s activities and requests will appear as “Stamps” in the lower left of the screen as you play, too, so you’ll always know if someone is looking for a trade, battle, or Max Raid Battle partner – which you can then respond to with the Y-Comm. You can do any of these activities from anywhere in the world, too, not just the Wild Area.However, in the Wild Area you can actually see other nearby players in your game, which is pretty damn cool – but unfortunately, there is a lot of latency and connectivity is pretty limited. Interacting with another player you see in your game only nets you a free item – if you want to trade or battle, you’ll still have to use the trusty Y-Comm. I assume this will work the same way online because of the “Connect to the Internet” option in the Y-Comm, but can’t confirm that yet. Online functionality being down also prevented me from checking the Wild Area Forecast... whatever that is.I had plenty of fun just progressing through the world of Galar outside the Wild Area. Though the routes aren’t quite large or expansive enough to get lost in (that’s what we have the Wild Area for!) its United Kingdom inspiration is evident from the architecture of the buildings and bridges, and even the geoglyphs etched into the hillsides. While exploring, you can see towns and other points of interest far in the distance, and sometimes there are buildings and spectacles speckled into the backdrop just to make the world feel more fleshed out. I always found myself stopping when crossing bridges to appreciate the landscapes in the background. I wish I could talk specifically about my favorite town and the area leading up to it, but just know some of them are just so delightful and unique to explore with memorable scenery and music to go with it.Battle music, on the other hand, isn’t very memorable at all. The gym theme doesn’t feel tense enough, though to its credit it is dynamic. When your opponent is down to their final Pokemon, the music changes to include a melody carried out by the fans shouting from the bleachers. The transition is reminiscent of an EDM drop, but it lacks the weight and satisfaction that usually comes after it. Some of Pokemon’s old music are the most memorable tunes in gaming history, and it’s disappointing gen 8’s doesn't live up to those standards.The gyms, music notwithstanding, are delightful hybrids of challenges and battles, pitting trainers against unruly herds of Wooloo, puzzles, and more nerve-wracking plights while also battling rookie gym trainees before finally reaching the Gym Leader inside massive stadiums. Each of these challenges are wholly unique and memorable, and like usual, the mono-typed Gym Leaders made it easy for me when I had decent counters, and substantially more difficult when I lacked them. I really appreciated one in particular who was a nod to competitive play if I’ve ever seen one.These Gym Battles were one of the few places I could experiment with Dynamaxing and Gigantamaxing my Pokemon, and I’m glad for the limitation. Being able to play with these gimmicky new systems whenever would be too tempting, and I’m sure I’d get bored of the animation sequence fast. There’s only so many times you can see your character throw a giant ball and your Pokemon get big. But I do like the mechanic more than I thought I would.Because Dynamaxing doesn’t require a Pokemon to hold an item, it makes my team more flexible than Mega Evolution or Z-Moves did (though, personally, I like the aesthetics and wild changes Mega Evolution offered to Pokemon more than Dynamaxing does, though at least Gigantamax Pokemon can still look just as cool.) This flexibility also makes predicting your opponent more difficult, but since it only lasts three turns, a lot of thought needs to be put into when and what to Dynamax. I’m not exactly a competitive player and only fought in Sword and Shield against other real people a few times, but I think I see the potential and I’m looking forward to see what the pros come up with for Dynamaxing this season at Play! Pokemon events and in online tournaments.Though of course I looked forward to each gym, I wasn’t quite as enthusiastic as Ash because I always wanted to stop at each town’s boutique first! Man, the clothes, hair, and makeup options in Pokemon Sword and Shield are incredible. With multiple colors and patterns to choose from for each piece of clothing, there’s a huge variety that allows you to customize your trainer to a highly personal degree. For makeup, you can choose wild contact lenses that make your eyes look like flames or rainbows, and it even goes as far as letting you get eyelash extensions.Once I fixed my hair, makeup, and wardrobe I edited my League Card to my liking – essentially a baseball card that trainers carry – which also had its own abundance of cosmetic options. It doesn’t serve a whole lot of purpose beyond sharing with friends and others online, kind of like a Guild Card in Monster Hunter without the tiny gameplay benefits, but I still had fun making mine just how I wanted it.Each Gym Leader and rival has Guild Cards, too, with a little bit of extra info about each of them on the back. These side characters all are more fleshed out than usual, some with complementing character arcs, and even though these micro-stories are certainly sides to the main dish, I enjoyed them all the same. Sword and Shield’s overarching story, which runs parallel to your personal quest of conquering the Galar region’s Gym Challenge, had a few twists that surprised me, but not enough time was spent on developing it to make it a marquee feature – as is usual with Pokemon. I was at least glad that there was more to discover about the story after the credits roll, roughly 39 hours in!While Sword and Shield aren’t among the best-looking games on the Switch, the first mainline Pokemon games you can play on a big-screen TV certainly don’t look bad, either. In fact, compared to previous Pokemon games, they look fantastic – and there’s no sign of the framerate stutter that was so common on the 3DS during battles. Some of the new unique attack animations are really damn cool (Nintendo doesn’t want us to talk about them in detail quite yet, but take my word for it). They really stand out against some of the older moves, which can be stiff and plain.And while the cutscenes are nice enough, I’m disappointed by the continued lack of emotion in not only your own character’s face, but on those of your rivals and companions as well. The stakes of this story get pretty extreme, but your character is just mindlessly smiling along with it all? The animations can also be stiff, like they are in older attack animations. So while the graphics are undoubtedly the best we’ve ever seen in a Pokemon RPG, they still haven’t quite matched up with other RPGs on the Switch and elsewhere. On top of that there’s some noticeable pop-in of wild Pokemon and items, and other small quirks that, still, never disrupted play. All things considered, gameplay and charm are more important to me than raw visual pageantry, and those are qualities Sword and Shield have in spades.There’s been a lot of consternation in the community over the fact that Sword and Shield are the first Pokemon games not to include the “National Pokedex.” That means you won’t be able to transfer some of the 800 or so total pre-existing Pokemon from every previous generation into this one after you’ve beaten the campaign. While that’s a bummer, especially for the completionists out there, we should be clear about what the difference means: if it were to work the way it did in previous games, it wouldn’t affect your initial playthrough at all. Previously, the National Dex was exclusively available in the endgame, either due to story progression limitations or late introduction of the Pokemon Bank or Pokemon Bank patch.As evident in the video above, my initial reaction was also negative to this news, but after having played, consider my mind changed. Of course, I’m still super disappointed I can’t transfer the shiny Absol that’s near and dear to my heart to Sword and Shield and see it in the much-improved Switch graphical style, but not having my beautiful red disaster Pokemon in the post-game isn’t a dealbreaker for me. There are plenty of Pokemon in Sword and Shield, and the rest of my Pokemon can wait in their old games, Pokemon Bank, or in Pokemon HOME once it launches in early 2020 (where, yes, they will still be stuck). Maybe there’s something to be said about Ash leaving his previous team behind when he moves on to a new region.Beyond that, there are countless little touches that, as a long-time Pokemon player, I wholeheartedly appreciate. Tiny things, like my team being healed automatically after each gym battle so I could seamlessly continue the story, being able to switch Pokemon out of the Box mid-route, and being able to connect so seamlessly with others using the Y-Comm make a big difference when you add it all up. Tweaks like this make it feel like Pokemon is finally adapting to player behavior and removing the tediousness behind many of its long-standing mechanics, such as forcing you to heal with items between, for example, Elite Four matches in the past. I always stocked up on items and healed between matches unless I was challenging myself in the post-game, anyway. I also was over-the-moon thankful for the free Move Relearner in each and every Pokemon Center. I no longer had to anxiously agonize over which move to keep every time my Pokemon leveled up. Thank Arceus. Heart Scales could be used to change moves near the end game in the past, but the new system is just so much less stressful and more flexible.Some of these changes could be seen as making Pokemon “easier,” but in practice Sword and Shield are on-par with previous games’ difficulty. What’s been removed is just monotony. Whenever I wanted to up the challenge in a meaningful way, I could always switch the Battle Style to “Set” in the Options, which prevents you from getting a free, calculated switch-in whenever you knock out an opponent’s Pokemon. But, even without making it harder for myself, the final stretch of Sword and Shield were satisfying. Knowing my type match-ups was imperative to succeeding on my first try in these battles. I could see a less experienced trainer without the knowledge needed to strategize needing to over-level their Pokemon to get by. And even when you do beat them, Max Raid Battles, whatever the post-game has in store, and PvP are there to offer a real challenge.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate - Terry Bogard DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/11/07/super-smash-bros-ultimate-terry-bogard-dlc-review|Terry Bogard from Fatal Fury probably wasn’t on the tip of many people’s tongues when it came to their dream Smash Bros. guest characters. But now that he’s here, what this brawler lacks in broad notoriety, he more than makes up for with his mechanically dense gameplay. He’s one of the most challenging, but also one of the most fun and satisfying characters in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate to date.There’s a lot that’s special about Terry, but perhaps most notable is the fact that he has five special moves instead of four, each of which has multiple versions. There are also two super moves that he only gets access too once he’s at 100% damage or higher, a Ryu-style lock-on that always keeps him facing his opponent, and the unique ability to special cancel, which is a holdover from his traditional 2D-fighting-game roots.If you’ve ever played Ryu or Ken in Smash Bros., you should have a general idea of how Terry controls. Like the Street Fighter duo, being forced to face your nearest opponent makes it a little trickier to perform things like his back air, while also making it a bit easier to defend against cross-ups since you’ll rarely be caught looking the wrong way. It definitely takes some getting used to, but it’s a great way to differentiate the traditional fighting game characters from the rest of the cast while also feeling true to their roots.Also like Ryu and Ken, Terry has variations on his special moves that depend on the duration of the button press and also whether or not the command input was used. For example, his side-B special, Burning Knuckle, can either be pressed for a quick dash punch, or held for a slower start up but much farther reaching attack. In addition to that though, the command quarter-circle-forward - B can be used to further modify the attack, giving it extra power, and that command can also be pressed or held in the same way.He’s also the only character in Ultimate with a back-special instead of using the same side-special for both directions, so if there’s one thing that Terry isn’t lacking, it’s options. He’s got a projectile, a quick-dashing kill move, a confirmable combo ender that can also kill, and a great approach move that goes through shields and can also catch airborne opponents. His recovery may initially seem to be lacking, but it can be bolstered thanks to his forward-B and down-B, making the angles in which he can recover from somewhat unpredictable.And, if that wasn’t enough, he also has a comeback mechanic in the form of his super moves, which he gains access to once he’s at 100% or higher, or below 1/3rd of his HP in a stamina match. These moves can be quite punishable if your enemy sees them coming, but at low percentages they can be combo’d into, and at high percentages they’re extraordinarily effective kill moves. Just the threat of them being available is enough to make your opponent think twice about jumping towards you, out of fear of the Power Geyser, or getting too comfortable at long range out of fear of Buster Wolf.The biggest and most exciting mechanic for Terry, though, is his ability to special-cancel just like he would in the fighting games he’s from. This means he can cancel the recovery animation of certain attacks and go right into a special move. His jab combo, specifically, can be special-canceled after the third hit into his command-input down-B for an effective kill set-up off of just a jab. His forward-A can cancel into a back-B for easy damage with good range, or if you’ve got a super loaded, it can combo into his buster wolf. As someone who loves traditional 2D fighters, having combos like this in Smash is a wonderful alternative.My only real big issue with Terry is that the leniency of the command inputs can often cause you to use a move that you didn’t intend to. That’s a bit of a frustrating problem, but one that I can see practice mitigating a substantial amount.Terry’s stage is also one of a kind. It’s a completely flat plane, a la Final Destination, but removes the off-stage game entirely. The edge of the screen is essentially a wall that will bounce characters off it at low percentages – but if you hit a character through with enough force you’ll secure the kill. I’m mixed on this because off-stage action is one of the elements that makes Smash Bros. such a unique fighting game, but it also allows for wall combos and provides an interesting twist on the flat competitive style of Final Destination, which is a win in my book.SNK was also extremely generous when it comes to lending Nintendo its music. This DLC includes a total of 50 tracks that spans not only the Fatal Fury and King of Fighters series but the entirety of SNK’s library of games, including Metal Slug, Samurai Shodown, Psycho Soldier, and more. It’s awesome.
Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/11/05/mario-sonic-at-the-olympic-games-tokyo-2020-review|With a diverse assortment of minigames that span Olympic events ranging from horseback riding and surfing to the 100-meter dash and discus throw, Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 carries the torch forward without evolving too much of the series longstanding formula, for better and for worse. While the events and sports-themed minigames are generally fun and challenging, the story mode, online gameplay, and structure of the whole thing could use a lot of work.
Doraemon Story of Seasons Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/10/29/doraemon-story-of-seasons-review|After an hour-long tutorial, Doraemon Story of Seasons has me running out of battery faster than my Switch. It's been 62 minutes, and I've barely touched a thumbstick. Soon, this licensed farm life spin-off will have me familiarly watering crops, collecting bugs, and rearing livestock in a farming sim that borrows from both Animal Crossing and Stardew Valley. But first, I have to get through the boring part.Doraemon, one of the best-selling manga in the world, has come together with Marvelous, the original developer behind the Harvest Moon farming series. The crossover is as unusual as it sounds. What do a sleepy 10-year-old and a robot cat from the 22nd century have to do with farming? As it turns out, not much! The characters are lost in an alternate dimension, and the only way they can get home is to befriend the townsfolk. There's just one problem: this town puts its children to work, and I’m not talking about mowing the lawn.Your tiresome gang of heroes is immediately thrust into child labor and sent to sleep in strangers’ homes. It's a horrifyingly concerning premise, one your idiot children accept with jolly mirth. After a cringe-filled opening hour of pure dialogue in which the children are just begging for unpaid work, the main character, Noby, is finally provided a farm to look after. One of the townsfolk had an extra one just sitting around, apparently.That's about the full extent of how Doraemon is incorporated into this crossover, which probably would have been much better game without it altogether. Whether through inadequate translation or just plain shoddy writing, dialogue in Doraemon Story of Seasons is time-consuming, meandering, and weird – and the best thing I can say about the cutscenes is that they're mercifully skippable.The shrill, grating dialogue comes in sharp contrast to the lovely world around it. Every tree, pond, and house is doused in gorgeous watercolors. Each location looks like a page ripped from a child's storybook, and it's all backed by plucky, orchestral music that lends whimsy to your mostly enjoyable chores.And there are a lot of chores. To make money and upgrade your farm, you need to befriend townsfolk, work in the mines, milk cows, shear sheep, catch beetles, fish, cut down trees, and plant so, so many crops. You know, normal ten-year-old stuff. There's a decent variety of tasks, but it's not uncommon to do a little of all of them each day. That's in part because the days are overly long.Every in-game minute is one real-life second – you wake up at 6 am and can stay out all the way until 6 am the next morning. Provided you have enough food to replenish your limited stamina, there's technically very little reason to sleep before daybreak. If you’re looking to maximize profits, your time is better spent fishing all night, which requires zero energy. That meant most days usually took me somewhere around 17 to 23 minutes to complete. Each "Season" has 30 days, which means getting through a single, four-season year took a whopping 40 hours of playing – a length that felt extremely slow considering how much is locked away per season.If you want to be a completionist, you'll need to stick around for at least another year after that. Festivals are a mainstay in farming sims, serving as a sort of welcome commercial break to the monotony of farm work, and each season has a handful to attend. You can always check the calendar or event board in the town square, but on the day of the festival you're given little to no warning as to when they start. I missed at least one every month as I went about my usual business, and some – like the summer horse race – are just plain unwinnable in the first year.Attending the festivals themselves can be amusing though, ranging from things like cattle judging to watermelon smashing. The best of the bunch is the Cork Rifle competition, in which you shoot targets with a shooting mechanic (and gun) used nowhere else during the year. In each festival, villagers recycle the same corny dialogue – a Stepford Wives-style grab bag of generic, boring phrases like "There's a festival today," "Hey. I hear there's a festival today," and "It's finally festival day."But festivals aren't the only carrot Story of Seasons dangles in front of you. As you play, you'll continue unlocking little secrets, ranging from characters to entirely new mechanics. You eventually reclaim many of Doraemon's tools from the future, which range from useful to superfluous. One helps you find your way to NPCs while another lets you change the weather. There are also enticing secrets to uncover, like a mysterious box locked in a cave waiting for you to befriend the right person. But these additions and distractions never fundamentally change Doraemon Story of Seasons' flow, and quite a few of them are locked away until much later.Thankfully, there are a few smart features in Story of Seasons that do make day-to-day tasks easier. Checking the map also shows you the general location of villagers. That might seem like a small thing, but it removes a ton of guesswork when you're looking for a specific person. Pressing back on the right thumbstick lets you helpfully zoom the camera way, way out, giving you an eagle-eye view of your setting.As you progress through the seasons, you can use the money you earn to upgrade your farm in extremely useful ways. Whether you opt for renovating your house to build a kitchen or buying a better fishing pole, chasing the next improvement is an irresistible hook. By upgrading your possessions, you’ll gain access to even more ways to make money, and then you rinse and repeat with a familiar loop that remains captivating even when the chores themselves can be hit and miss.And a lot of its fundamental farming mechanics feel antiquated by Stardew Valley's many, many genre refinements. I no longer want to spend hours every day watering my crops and feeding my animals, but there are no upgrades to alleviate this scut work. Tiny actions like mining, planting seeds, or smashing rocks take far too long and nearly all of them wreak havoc on your stamina bar. For instance, it takes 16 swings of the axe to cut down a single tree early on, which uses up 16 of your 100 total stamina. Those 16 chops garner you just four pieces of wood, and even small upgrades to your farm can cost hundreds. I often found my stamina bar completely drained within the first three hours of a day. When that happens, there’s little else you can do but burn daylight by taking a nap, which I had to do nearly every day. At 10 stamina gained an hour, this can usually garner you just enough strength to finish menial tasks. Like it or not, you’ll be chopping wood for hours.Oh, and to make that chore of a task even worse, every single time you swing an axe, hammer, or pickaxe, your character Noby screams with exertion. It’s horrible. Thankfully, you can turn off voice audio, which I couldn’t do fast enough.You can upgrade your axe to chop wood faster, but it takes far too long before doing so has a sizable impact on your stamina bar, and many upgrades seem functionally useless. For instance, by buying pickaxe upgrades, you can cut through tougher and tougher ground, letting you progress deeper into the mines. But there are perplexing inconsistencies with what these upgrades promise compared to what they deliver that make them feel properly bugged. For example, the iron pickaxe can't actually cut the black tiles its text says it can, and the costly stew pot boasts it comes with ingredients and recipes, but actually comes with neither. As is, I'm convinced there is no reason to upgrade your fishing pole, hammer, or sickle more than once, which is probably for the best, given how expensive upgrades are.And so, with the deck stacked against you, you'd be forgiven if you started exploiting its systems, as there are certainly plenty of ways to do so. Mythical fish appear in specific places each season, and once you find that spot, you can farm them for hours on end to gain tens of thousands of gold each day.Mining is one of the best parts of every farming sim I’ve played, and Doraemon is no exception. As you cut through the ground, you’ll find paths deeper and deeper into the mine. The lower you go, the more valuable the items you’ll find. There’s gems, fossils, and even amber that can be sold or traded-in as late-game upgraded materials. And there’s a nice surprise if you reach the bottom at floor 10.However, you can start save scumming the mines to get to those lower floors every day – a crooked approach that works like a charm. Save your game, hoe tiles until you find the ladder down to the next floor, then reload the save and only hit that tile to save you loads of stamina. This helps you easily reach the real treasures on the 10th floor, which is otherwise tedious to get to.Sure, it’s essentially cheating, but upgrades are so costly and collecting resources is so exhausting that it almost feels like you're pushed toward these approaches to make any sort of tangible progress. Building a simple greenhouse, for example, costs more than 1,100 wood and 70,000 gold, meaning you'll either need to take your advantages where you can or spend a dozen daunting hours collecting the required resources.And this is the way I spent my days on the farm. There is still more to chase in the second year – I still haven't befriended the Goddess, found a sprite, or finished that absurdly expensive greenhouse – but nothing about the first year makes me want to keep playing. There could be more fun ahead, but first, I have to get through the boring part.
Overwatch Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/10/22/overwatch-switch-review|As it’s existed on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC for the past three years, Overwatch is one, if not the singular best game I’ve ever played. The moment-to-moment action, flexibility, and lashings of style in this team-based hero shooter all combine to make it a special experience. On Nintendo Switch, however, that exhilarating gameplay is too often robbed of the true greatness it achieves on other platforms. The perpetrators of this theft are a number of technical and control issues that make the Switch a tough place to play Overwatch. It’s still fun, but if you’re coming from somewhere else it’s hard to get used to.Check out the reveal trailer for Overwatch on Switch below:Watch Overwatch on Switch in action below:Watch the trailer for this year's Halloween Event below:
Little Town Hero Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/10/16/little-town-hero-review|The first brand-new non-Pokemon RPG from developer Game Freak in more than 20 years is an exciting prospect, and Little Town Hero proves the venerated developer still knows how to get weird. The entire adventure takes place in a single town, with turn-based fights in its snaking streets as local villagers throw food, ideas, and chickens at you to help take down the intimidating monsters that threaten their peace. While overly slow pacing and some occasionally aggravating randomization had me questioning whether I’d made a huge mistake in picking it up initially, Little Town Hero soon recovered thanks to a charming story and one of the cleverest and quirkiest JRPG combat systems I’ve used in years.You play as a young boy in an adorable village where no one is ever allowed to leave – so, of course, his one dream in life is to bail as soon as he possibly can. It’s a fairly typical JRPG story, full of monsters and magic shuffled together with quests about finding the right gift for your crush, but the dialogue is surprisingly funny and well-written throughout. As I said before, it truly is charming, plus the events in the last few hours of the roughly 15 it took to beat made me realize I’d become more invested than I thought.You can flip through some screenshots from Little Town Hero in the gallery above!Little Town Hero is fairly linear, with a handful of brief but amusing side quests to distract you sprinkled around. Quests usually consist of simply walking to different areas of town to talk to people or find objects, and there are no random combat encounters at all to slow down your progress between scripted battles. I liked that this made every fight feel like an event, with monsters positioned as proper boss fights tied into the story. However, that does mean there’s also a fair number of filler fights to break up all the talking, the bulk of which involve your rival, Mattock, abruptly challenging you to fisticuffs in the middle of whatever you are doing (sometimes multiple times in a row), adding a bit of needless repetition.Thankfully, the turn-based combat system Little Town Hero is built on is so cool that I was generally grateful for the added opportunities to play with it. It’s delightfully strange and unique: idea bubbles pop up around your character that you can spend energy on to solidify into the attacks they represent, and then you pit those attacks against your enemies’ own moves. Each attack (apart from the blue ones that are essentially spells) has a damage and health value, with options like beefy shields that can soak up hits, AOE moves to hit multiple enemy attacks at once, or mediocre attacks that provide buffs to your others when activated. If you can carefully plan out your match-ups and break all of your opponent’s attacks in a turn then you get an opportunity to hit their body for actual damage.It’s a simple system with a whole lot of choice, and at times it could feel like doing math homework as I calculated the damage of my ideas and measured them against my enemy’s planned moves. But cleverly formulating a strategy that wasn’t immediately apparent, like activating one idea to raise the attack of another just enough to barely defeat a high-health enemy attack, was immensely satisfying. It’s all enhanced by the Mario Party-style board that most fights play out on too, as certain attacks allow you to move more freely around it instead of being bound to a dice roll.The board adds an extra layer of both planning and flavor as you travel around different parts of the town getting special assistance like buffs or healing from your friends, some of whom you have to unlock through simple side quests. There are also objects like cannons or vicious chickens that can be extremely beneficial, but only if you plan accordingly by making it to them with the specific attack that will activate that object ready – for example, the fragile but powerful Destroy attack can be useful for breaking high-health enemy attacks, but if you save it for a space with an explosive barrel then it will let you do massive damage to every enemy attack and their body at once. In an already-weird combat system, the board has got to be the weirdest part, but I actually ended missing it during the filler fights that occasionally simplified things to a single location.It all moves at an authentically small-town pace, which is to say tediously slowly. A sluggish UI and ponderous animations can make otherwise-exciting fights feel downright sleepy at times. Indicators for how damage is dealt, what special effects have activated, or even what turn number it is all just slow things down. I already spent so long mathing out my turn that having to sit through the animations behind those choices afterward got on my nerves. I quickly longed for an option to skip these, or at least speed up what I’d already seen a thousand times, but neither is possible.That’s not to imply the attack animations themselves are bad, they just take their sweet time. Little Town Hero really looks great, measuring up well against JRPGs that are much bigger than it. Its special mid-combat villager abilities especially standing out with one of my favorites coming from your best friend Nelz, who will fall asleep, be woken up by a lightbulb appearing above his head as he has an idea, then pluck that bulb out of the air and throw it like a weapon. The big monsters you have to face are all fantastically designed, too, ranging from a snarling humanoid beast with twisted horns to a giant spike-tentacled whale to a creepy possessed doll come to life.Are you a Game Freak fan? Here's every Pokemon review IGN has ever done:I enjoyed looking at all of it, but being held hostage by animations also makes a handful of punishing, randomized enemy abilities exponentially more frustrating. Bad coin flips against a giant carnivorous plant monster (easily the most infuriating fight in Little Town Hero) randomly disabled the one attack I needed to win during a turn multiple times, which just feels awful. Effects like this don’t undermine the strategy at play, but the prospect of losing half an hour into a fight and having to restart through no fault of my own is an excruciatingly daunting one.Things smoothed out a little bit once I got deeper into Little Town Hero’s simple skill tree. While you never get new attacks, you can level up the ones you have in meaningful ways, like adding the extremely valuable Pierce effect to sneak in some extra damage. I also started thinking of each boss as a puzzle to solve: you have to drastically alter your strategy to play around each monster’s overpowered attacks – like an ogre with an entirely invincible move that’s only breakable if you land on certain spaces of the board, forcing me to save otherwise-powerful abilities until I could get there. But I did enjoy finding those strategies, even when I was waiting to play as much as actually playing.
The Witcher 3: Complete Edition - Nintendo Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/10/14/witcher-3-switch-review|When CD Projekt Red’s massive fantasy RPG was first released on Xbox One, PC, and PS4 in 2015 our reviewer said its massive, intricately detailed world, compelling cast, and optional questlines “elevated The Witcher 3: The Wild Hunt to a plane few other RPGs inhabit.” Four years later, all of that content, along with its 16 free DLC packs and two of the best paid expansions in recent memory, has come to the Nintendo Switch. While it’s definitely not the best way to experience all that The Witcher 3 has to offer, it’s in many ways an impressive port of an amazing game that offers a more convenient way to digest its more than 150 hours — so long as you keep it in handheld mode.The Witcher 3 is such a demanding game that even in handheld mode it has to run at a mere 540p instead of the Switch screen’s native 720p. But that’s rarely a distraction from the dense woods, cobbled streets, and snowy mountains of Velen, Novigrad, and Skellige (plus the insanely colorful fields and hills of the Blood and Wine expansion’s Toussaint). While certain sacrifices, such as decreased draw distance and lower-quality textures aren’t imperceptible on the small screen – and are more visible in certain areas than others – they do little to degrade the experience in a meaningful way.Beyond that, the streets of cities like Novigrad and Oxenfurt see some particularly notable texture and detail pop-in, especially in areas with a lot of NPCs. The same can be said for dense woodland areas or thick forests, though I often found myself too preoccupied marveling at the bobbing of Geralt's hair in the breeze or the truly gorgeous lighting effects that somehow still work in the palm of my hand.That magic quickly fades, however, when you dock the Switch to play it on the big screen. The Witcher 3 only outputs at 720p when docked, as opposed to the standard 900-1080p of most Switch games, and boy does that drag every one of this port’s downgrades into the stark, harsh light of day. On a larger 1080p or 4k display, The (S)Witcher 3 looks rough. Textures are muddy, trees appear to be made more of cotton candy than of leaves, and the jagged edges on everything around you serve as a constant reminder of just how much we take good anti-aliasing for granted. I implore you: if you want to play this game on a TV and have access to any other platform, you’d be doing yourself a disservice running it on Switch.It isn’t unplayable, by any means – depending on your definition of that term, of course. While the errant framerate stutter or camera clip may occur, performance in both docked or handheld mode is reasonably solid. Throughout the half-dozen or so hours I’ve put into it so far (I opted to start at the beginning of the exceptional Hearts of Stone expansion, with the main questline already completed) it maintained a mostly consistent 24-30 FPS, dipping down only in exceedingly crowded or effects-heavy moments. If you’re someone who finds sub-30 frame rates unacceptable in this day and age, though, this version of The Witcher 3 probably won’t cut it for you.While some made the case that combat in the PC/console version of Witcher 3 feels “clunky,” I was never one of them. I enjoy how the balance of heavy and light attacks meshes with the use of simple magic, and I never found any of that particularly frustrating on a design level – my failures as Geralt have always felt earned. In handheld mode on Switch, however, there are some issues that make controlling the Witcher a bit more of a headache.The first is that, since The Witcher 3 was originally designed for screens a lot larger than six inches, it can be difficult to keep track of smaller enemies like Nekkers or Ghouls, particularly when fighting them in thick brush (which, let’s face it, is almost always). Larger enemies or single-target fights aren’t really an issue in that regard, but they have their own challenge: thanks to the Joy-Cons being designed to be useable as separate, individual gamepads, their buttons are directly above or under the thumbsticks instead of to the side (as on an Xbox controller) or above (as on the DualShock 4), which can cause hiccups here and there. For example, in order to use a potion while in combat you have to completely remove your thumb from the stick that controls Geralt’s movement, resulting in a stall to his momentum that – on more than one occasion – left me vulnerable to an incoming attack. It was only a real problem in more difficult battles, such as Contract monsters or certain bosses, but was enough to make the already lengthy loading screens between death and another attempt a bit more frustrating.This isn’t an issue if you’re playing with a Pro controller, but that’s not a great option if you’re running it in handheld mode. It’s also avoidable by using the Quick Access / Sign selection wheel, though that feels like a workaround for a problem that should have been fixed in development. Returning players from other platforms will also probably find it odd that the commands for run and dodge have been flipped on the face buttons — probably to maintain consistency with the expectation of on-screen prompts (“A” interacts with someone, “B” jumps, etc) — but this is revertable in an alternate control scheme in the options menu.
Mortal Kombat 11: The Terminator DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/10/09/mortal-kombat-11-terminator-dlc-review|Netherrealm has a stellar reputation to live up to at this point when it comes to its crossover guest characters, with previous Mortal Kombat games hosting the likes of Freddy Kreuger, Jason, Leatherface, and a Xenomorph, not to mention Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles' cameo in Injustice 2. The newest, Terminator in Mortal Kombat 11, doesn’t break this trend of greatness. The T-800 Terminator is one scary fighter, capable of dealing off-the-charts damage that is appropriately balanced by a sub-par neutral game and generally slow attacks. He looks and plays exactly as you’d expect him to, even if he doesn't sound it. This is one of the most mediocre Arnold impressions I’ve ever heard.First thing's first: Terminator hurts. A lot. His damage potential is easily in the upper echelon of Mortal Kombat 11’s roster, especially if he has his Infiltrator Toss air-grab equipped, which is part of his first competitive variation. For one bar, he can do about 36-38% damage. Throw in a second bar, that’s about 43%. Pile on one of his relatively simple-to-land Krushing Blows and you’re looking at nearly 50% of your life bar terminated in a single combo, without even bringing in a fatal blow. What’s great is that these combos aren’t even all that hard to land, so if you’re looking for a character with big, satisfyingly damaging combos without a high technical barrier, Terminator might be your man-bot.Of course, this kind of damage output needs to be tempered somehow, and fortunately, Terminator does have a few glaring weaknesses to balance him out. For one, he’s very slow and lacks a good far-reaching mid attack, which means he can be easily out-ranged by players with a good handle on space control. In addition, his main combo strings are easily beaten out by fast attacks, which makes them a little tricky to just throw out in the wild; and while he has a few solid projectiles and a shield that makes him projectile invulnerable, he has a tough time getting in on those intent on keeping him out. He’s a character that basically lives or dies by whether he’s able to get in close, knock the enemy down, and stay there.Thankfully, he’s been given the tools to do just that. To get in, he has a safe-on-block leaping overhead that knocks the opponent down. Once he’s in his comfortable range and is able to put on some wake-up pressure, Terminator is a mix up machine. Just to give an example: most of Terminator’s big damage comes from a low-to-overhead combo string that can be special-canceled after the first hit into either a command grab, or his low-hitting Cyber Rift special move, which also comes equipped on his first competitive variation.To break that down, the opponent has to guess whether to block the overhead, the low attack, or either jump over, duck, or interrupt the command throw. The most likely option is the overhead, since it’s safe on block and leads to big damage, but if you keep blocking the overhead and keep getting hit by lows or command grabs that damage adds up very quickly.Most of what I’ve talked about so far covers his first competitive variation, but Terminator has some interesting tools on his other variations that change up his gameplay substantially. His second competitive variation revolves around a move appropriately called “The Running Man,” which causes Terminator to sprint forward, giving him the option to use either a launch that leads to combos in the corner, a mid-combo ender, an unblockable running command grab, or just cancel the run and use it to simply close the distance. It’s a variation that trades some of his damage for a bit more of an unorthodox playstyle.His third variation is even wilder than that, giving him a brand-new mechanic in the form of a pair of grenades. One grenade can be enhanced to pop an opponent up for a combo, and the other grenade is unblockable and causes a lengthy debuff that prevents the opponent from using their meter. That's huge because it not only prevents enhanced special moves, but also removes the ability to use get up attacks and rolls when on the ground. The catch is that Terminator can only carry two grenades at a time, and once he runs out he needs to wait a couple of seconds before they come back to him.Each variation offers an interesting tradeoff, and while I personally prefer the simplicity and high damage of his first variation, there’s a lot to like across the board.Beyond his competitive variations, it’s also worth noting that one of Terminator's moves is wholly unique, in that if it’s equipped, it will cause him to shed his human skin, exposing his metallic endoskeleton once his health dips below about 10%. It’s a purely gimmicky move, but at least it’s a very cool gimmick.The only real downer about The Terminator is that again, while he looks spectacular, his voice just feels off. He may be modeled after Arnold Schwarzenegger’s face, but it’s definitely not actually him doing the voice behind it. The impression isn’t that strong to start, but every line also feels like it’s read with the exact same monotone delivery. I get that the Terminator is a cyborg, but Arnold didn’t say every single line in the movies with the same rhythm and cadence. He was a machine, but he could still pass as an actual person. This guy stands out like a sore thumb.
Trine 4: The Nightmare Prince Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/10/07/trine-4-the-nightmare-prince-review|Whenever I think of great co-op games, the Trine series is never far from my thoughts. Since 2009, developer Frozenbyte has been quietly delivering some of the most beautiful and joyous puzzle platformers around. Sure, Trine 3 was an overly ambitious misstep, but Trine 4: The Nightmare Prince is a great course correction, with a back-to-basics approach that returns to the series’ 2.5D roots while adding several clever, game-changing new toys and abilities for each hero to play with. And while it’s not quite the ride that Trine 2 is, it’s nonetheless a welcome return to form for my favorite puzzle solving, adventuring trio: Amadeus, Zoya, and Pontius.Trine 4, like all Trine games before it, puts you in control of the aforementioned wizard, thief, and knight. The serviceable but altogether unremarkable fairytale story this time around has the team searching for a missing prince named Celius, who has exposed himself to dark magic that causes the nightmares of those around him to come to life, hence the subtitle.Gameplay is the star of the show here and it’s classic Trine, through and through. Each character is fun to play on their own, though Amadeus is arguably the most important when it comes to the more complex puzzles thanks to his ability to conjure boxes and other shapes to help get the team over obstacles, and he offers the most flexibility in coming up with solutions. The basic synergy between him and the others remains almost entirely unchanged: Zoya’s like a Swiss army knife of utility with her grappling hook, bow, and elemental arrows; and Pontius just plays like a wrecking ball of destruction, capable of decimating enemies and obstacles in ways that the other characters simply can’t.In solo mode, you can switch between each of these characters on the fly, as you’d expect, but when it comes to multiplayer Trine 4 also includes Trine 3’s goofy Unlimited Mode. In Unlimited, everybody can swap to any character they want at any time, which means you can have wild situations like having all Amadeus’s on screen, each creating boxes and causing utter mayhem. This mode also allows for up to four players to play at once, whereas other Trine games were limited to three.For the more serious crowd, there is also Classic mode, which is the more traditional style that is meant for three players, with each person assuming the role of one of the heroes.One thing that Trine 4 does better than any of its predecessors is its sense of progression. You start with a meager but effective set of abilities for each character, and at just about every other level a new ability is granted that changes up the way you approach puzzle solving. Whether it be Pontius’s Charge attack that can launch boulders to break certain walls, Amadeus’s ability to create planks and steel balls, or Zoya’s newfound technique of attaching a fairy rope to an object to make it float into the air like a balloon, they all open up some interesting new options.In addition, there’s a skill tree that features optional but useful upgrades like Amadeus’ power to slam levitated objects down, Pontius’s ability to freeze enemies when he stomps them, and Zoya’s skill to fire a fully charged bow shot after a roll. This split of automatic unlocks and purchasable skills that reward you for collecting items is a huge improvement over Trine 2’s simplistic skill tree.Unfortunately, one area that Trine 4 does not improve over its predecessors is in its puzzle design. There are a couple of satisfying head-scratchers, most notably in the last couple of stages in the six or seven-hour campaign, along with one standout level involving a dream palace and a heavy emphasis on portals and light beam puzzles. But, for the most part, many of the puzzles in Trine 4 repeat the same ideas with very little variation. There were long stretches of levels where I would enter a room and immediately know how to proceed without even having to think about it, which is not a good sign in a puzzle platformer.As a result, a lot of Trine 4 feels too straightforward and easy, especially if you’re a solo player. When playing with in multiplayer – which is absolutely the way Trine 4 is meant to be played – the added chaos of having to communicate and coordinate with other people significantly ramps up the difficulty, and the amount of fun to be had. In addition, many of the puzzles when playing in multiplayer mode are actually slightly altered to cater to having extra players in the level, making them a bit more difficult and addressing my main issue with the puzzles being too easy. Above all else though, some of the best moments of Trine 4 occur when cooperation breaks down and you just take turns finding the best and most unexpected ways of sabotaging each other.Combat is still a weak point of the Trine series, but Trine 4 does at least make it a little more fun to play as Amadeus and Zoya when the action breaks out. Zoya can now use her frost arrows to freeze enemies and then switch over to normal arrows for big damage, while Amadeus can use his levitation stomp to crush enemies in a single blow. Still, neither of those options are as effective as just using Pontius to charge headfirst into enemies, mash X with reckless abandon, and cut down all in your way.One final way that Trine 4 lives up to its legacy is in its art, which once again shows that Frozenbyte employs some of the most talented 2.5D artists in gaming. There’s a certain whimsical storybook quality to the look of Trine 4 that succeeded in drawing me into its fantastical world, which is full of intricate detail in each of its beautiful vistas.The only sour spot is the small handful of technical issues that I encountered, which include some objects in the environment being completely invisible, and some textures that never loaded in, making the gorgeous world feel flat and devoid of detail. With a game this pretty, that’s a tragedy every time it happens.
FIFA 20 Legacy Edition (Switch) Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/09/27/fifa-20-legacy-edition-switch-review|There’s honestly no genuine reason I could give you to purchase FIFA 20 on the Nintendo Switch if you already own FIFA 19 on Switch. I don’t generally share the sentiment of the crowd that labels sports games as the same every year, but when it comes to FIFA 20 Legacy Edition, all of the comment section tropes are valid. For a series already drowning in microtransaction debate, the Switch version really doesn’t help EA’s case in currying gamers’ favour by essentially offering nothing but a barebones roster update for nearly the price of a full game. A ‘macrotransaction’, if you will.Last year, I had this to say about FIFA 19’s gameplay on Nintendo Switch:“FIFA 20’s moment-to-moment gameplay remains, disappointingly, largely completely unchanged from last year’s under-par outing. Still running on EA’s Ignite engine (last used on the PS4/Xbox/PC version for FIFA 16), it simply can’t compete with the fluidity of movement and authentically animated players the Frostbite-powered versions display [...] All in all, FIFA 20’s gameplay on Switch appears to have been largely neglected when compared to last year, and especially when compared to its big brother.”
Nintendo Switch Lite Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/09/26/nintendo-switch-lite-review|The original Nintendo Switch no longer feels like a proper portable device now that I’ve used the Switch Lite. This new slimmed-down version reminds me of the Game Boy Advance in look and feel, offering a cheaper and more attractive way to play the Switch’s incredible library on the go. Of course, it comes at the cost of its signature ability to dock and play on a TV, sacrificing a whole lot of flexibility in how you play. But while the Lite can’t actually “switch,” it certainly does the mode it’s stuck in well enough to satisfy anybody looking to replace their aging Nintendo 3DS. In fact, if I’m playing a game in handheld mode anyway, I’d rather do so on a Switch Lite than on a full-fledged Switch.I was impressed from the first moment I took this lovely yellow Switch Lite out of its box (it’s also currently available in gray and turquoise), and have grown even more in love with its little tweaks and improvements as I’ve used it more over the last week. The clean matte finish and surprisingly light weight (9.7oz down from the original 14oz) feels great in my hands, to the point where the clunkier patchwork body of my regular Switch and its attached Joy-Con is suddenly much more obvious than it was just a couple of weeks ago.Watch our unboxing of the Nintendo Switch Lite in the video below:While the Lite’s screen is certainly smaller (5.5 inches, down from the original’s 6.2-inch screen), it doesn’t really feel that way while playing. I got used to it right away and barely noticed; instead when I went back to my regular Switch, its screen suddenly felt noticeably large. That’s a small distinction, but it means the Lite’s size quickly appears natural, not reduced. And even though games that already have a problem with hard-to-read text like Fire Emblem: Three Houses or Dragon Quest Builders 2 certainly still have that issue, the Lite doesn’t make it worse in the way I feared it might.The LCD screen is lovely, too. From what I can tell, games seem to play pretty much the same here as on the original performance-wise, with the graphics even looking marginally improved at times due to the slightly higher pixel density that comes from having the same 720p resolution crammed into a smaller space. I appreciated that the bezel around the Lite’s screen is slightly slimmer too, thanks in part to the absence of the Joy-Con tracks on each side.However, one drawback of that slim body that I’ve already encountered comes from its speakers. They sound comparable enough to those in the original in quality, but having the volume at higher levels can cause certain music or in-game audio to vibrate the entire device like a ringing phone – which is a little ironic because the Lite doesn’t have built-in controller rumble. It’s not a huge issue, and obviously it goes away entirely if you’re using headphones, but it can be genuinely annoying to have my fingertips constantly buzzing while playing a small subset of games.On the topic of headphones, it’s little aggravating that the Lite – a portable device released in 2019 – does not support Bluetooth headphones without an adapter. That was an odd omission when the Switch came out two years ago, but it’s even more confusing with this mobile-focused iteration. You can certainly buy a third-party USB-C dongle for anywhere from $30 to $50 that lets you pair to any headset (I tried one built for the original Switch and it worked fine here too), but the fact that you’re still forced to seems like a poor choice.Will the Lite be your first Switch? Here are our favorite games for it:In the plus column, the buttons built into the Lite are a tangible improvement over regular Joy-Con. The joysticks and shoulder buttons are near-identical, but the face buttons have sharper edges and depress a little farther in, making them more satisfyingly tactile to use. The all-new D-pad that replaces the left Joy-Con’s directional buttons is also a fantastic addition – it doesn’t have the clickiness of other D-pads like the Xbox One Controller or Switch Pro Controller, but it’s far better than any third-party Switch option I’ve tried and let my thumb roll easily between directions in a precision platformer like Celeste. The Lite may not be an upgrade to the original in terms of power, but it is in construction.The only controls that don’t hold up well are motion controls. They still work fine for smaller movements like aiming a bow in Breath of the Wild, but not having Joy-Con to detach means activities like shaking them to roll faster in Super Mario Odyssey or Zelda’s already annoying motion-control shrine puzzles totally suck to do. Shaking the whole system or physically turning it sideways so you can’t even see the screen makes parts of these games borderline unplayable.You can, of course, sync up separately purchased wireless controllers (whether they be Joy-Con, Pro Controllers, or other third-party options) for a far more usable setup, but without a built-in kickstand you’ll still need to prop up the Lite’s screen in some other way while you hold that controller in your hands. Similarly, the Lite’s inability to dock to a TV makes co-op games on a single system a struggle. You can theoretically still play them on a single Lite, but I’m not sure I’ll ever want to play things like Overcooked, Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, or Mario Kart 8 Deluxe with four people crowding around an even smaller screen.Obviously, that’s not what this spin-off system was designed for. Without the hybrid nature of the original, the Lite is a proper handheld and should be treated as such. Just because certain games can run on this new model doesn’t necessarily mean you should be playing them here. That’s made doubly apparent with Joy-Con-centric games like Super Mario Party and Snipperclips, both of which have you using a lone sideways Joy-Con to play. (For context, buying an $80 pair of Joy-Con on top of the $200 Lite would nearly equal the $300 price of regular Switch.) Meanwhile, the cardboard Labo accessories are entirely incompatible with the Lite.Here's a pre-release video breaking down five games that could have problems on the Lite:Still, the idea that a $200 device legitimately small enough to fit into my pocket (my condolences to those of you cursed with the tiny pockets of women’s pants) is able to play massive games like Breath of the Wild, Skyrim, Doom, and soon even The Witcher 3 is incredible. It may be a dedicated handheld, but it’s one with access to an amazing game library stretching far beyond what we’d previously thought possible for a device like this. Sure, their performance or playability may vary compared to more powerful consoles, but it can be done.There are other missing features here and there, things like rumble and auto-brightness adjustment, but they are largely just minor annoyances. Battery life is slightly better than a launch Switch but disappointingly shorter than the newly revised version that recently replaced it, a decent but unremarkable three to seven hours, depending on the game. But those little drawbacks don’t outweigh all of the improvements that have been made, and ultimately if I’m playing in handheld mode then I’d rather be doing it on a Lite – you just have to sacrifice TV mode entirely for that benefit.Some of you out there may already have a base Switch and are wondering whether this lovely little thing could make a good companion for it. That really comes down to a personal decision, since apart from being smaller and having better buttons (including its swanky new D-pad), the Lite isn’t really a proper “upgrade” in terms of power.While using a single Nintendo account across two different Switches is relatively easy to do, keep in mind that it does come with a few annoyances. You’ll need to register one of them as your primary Switch, and whichever one you don’t will essentially have to be treated as having an “always online” requirement to play any non-physical copies of games - although you can change which one is which whenever you want.Confused about Switch cloud saves? Here's how it could affect you:Your primary Switch can continue to play downloaded games on the go as usual, but your secondary Switch will require an internet connection to verify you aren’t simultaneously using that account elsewhere. Again, it can still play cartridges offline no problem, but if you primarily download then you’ll likely want to leave your original Switch connected to the internet at home and make the Lite your primary for easier on-the-go gaming.Additionally, while cloud saves through the Nintendo Switch Online service work well to easily sync up the two systems, some games – like Splatoon 2 and the upcoming Animal Crossing: New Horizons – don’t support that feature. You can find more details on Switch accounts and cloud saves on our Nintendo Switch wiki pages.It is worth noting, however, that the Lite doesn’t solve (but also doesn’t make worse) a few of the base model’s lingering annoyances. Considering how cheap memory is these days, I wish there had been a version with more than 32GB of built-in storage – though you can easily use an SD card to expand it, as usual. It also gets fairly (but not worryingly) warm at times like the original, and still lacks basic console features like an internet browser, a Netflix app, or a way to manually organize the games on your home screen - those first two are far less egregious on a handheld-only device, but still a strange oversight nowadays.On top of that is the looming threat of the Switch’s now-notorious joystick drift. While I haven’t experienced it with our Lite, there have already been a small number of reports that some folks have seen their Lite’s joysticks start drifting slightly to one side in the same way the joysticks on the Joy-Con have been known to. It’s a real concern, one Nintendo has thankfully been good about fixing for free since it became a widely known issue, but shipping your whole system off for repair is a lot less convenient than doing so for a single Joy-Con, free or not. The idea that Nintendo potentially didn’t take the Lite as an opportunity for a more permanent fix to this problem is, frankly, baffling.
Untitled Goose Game Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/09/20/untitled-goose-game-review|As implied by the absence of a title, in Untitled Goose Game you play as a goose. But not just any goose: you’re a goose who is also a total asshole. (Honestly, maybe that just means you are a regular goose.) You run around a lovely, minimalist English village honking, flapping your wings, and generally doing goose things as you clear off a hand-written checklist full of mischievous goose tasks.Click the looping video below to see even more gameplay:Much of Untitled Goose game genuinely feels like a stealth game. Even the biggest asshole of a goose has to be sneaky at times, hiding in bushes or in boxes as you wait for the right time to rush out and cause mayhem. It’s not an exaggeration to compare it to the likes of Hitman or Metal Gear Solid, just with goose-based shenanigans replacing all that icky murder. Slowly creeping up behind an unsuspecting sap who is holding an item you need or using strategically placed walkie-talkies to lure some mook away with HONKs never failed to make me laugh.And this goose’s to-do list apparently consists entirely of being a total jerk to the people who live in its cute little town for reason beyond “because goose.” The foul deeds required of you can range from stealing food for a picnic to nabbing a gardener’s keys off his belt to untying a little boy’s shoelaces, scaring him until he runs away and trips, then quickly stealing his glasses and letting him blindly search the ground until you bring him the wrong pair back. It is gloriously malevolent. Who wrote this list? That much is unclear, but we know whoever did has a special kind of hatred in their heart.I loved just about every maniacal task I was given, all of which are as weird as they are clever. Being an asshole goose is just a ton of fun, so even the silly simplicity of a task obscurely called “Rake in the Lake” was enough to send me into a honking fervor as I excitedly stole and dragged a poor old gardener’s rake into the dang lake. It’s hard to describe the strange pleasure Untitled Goose Game elicited as I let out triumphant victory honks while the gardener stood on the edge of the water shaking his head in frustration.While a task like “Rake in the Lake” lacks wiggle room for how you can go about crossing it off your list, many of the others thrive off of flexibility, improvisation, and creative problem solving. Another early one asks you to get the gardener wet, which can be accomplished in a number of different ways that I won’t spoil (simply because there are relatively few objectives overall, so spelling this one out would give away a large percentage of them). Not every task is like this, but I loved that many of the solutions I came up with could feel unique to me.You can flip through some screenshots from Untitled Goose Game below:However, it can be a tad frustrating at times that grabbing objects with your beak is a little less precise than you’d want it to be for a game that requires some speed and accuracy to avoid being thwarted by a pesky human. Granted, a goose grabbing a full-size pumpkin with its beak doesn’t exactly sound like it would be the most elegant thing in the world, but incorrectly highlighting one item to grab because it was just a little too close to another could sometimes waste precious seconds and cause my carefully laid gardener traps to go to waste.Thankfully, there is a delightful lack of consequence or urgency in most areas, letting you take your time, mess up, and experiment as you refine your bill-based terror. Getting caught with an object simply makes you drop it, which can often result in a hysterical back and forth as you nab something out of a person’s hand over and over. Messing up can still throw a monkey wrench in your plans (especially in an area like the pub, which has a bouncer who will shoo you outside), but there are no “Goose Over” screens to fear, and I wouldn’t really want that any other way.In coming up with a goose-based pun for the title card of this review’s video, we made so many terrible goose jokes that it felt morally wrong to let them go to waste. Here are a few of the rejects:We apologize.But what really ties this downy duvet together is its music and sound effects. Much of the time there won’t be any music playing at all, letting you relentlessly honk away or just listen to the adorable patter of your little feet, which accompanies one of the best walk animations of 2019. (I also loved tiny details like bottles, traffic cones, or even a harmonica altering your honk while you are holding them in your bill.) When there is music, the piano-driven score expertly fades in and out with the action on screen – it lent an air of Benny Hill-style ridiculousness to chases, and always seemed to mischievously creep in at the perfect time just as I started to sneak up on an unsuspecting target. It’s used with a light touch, but to incredible effect.Once you complete most of the checklist for an area, a new path will open up letting you move on to the next one, complete with another checklist and a fresh set of unsuspecting victims. You’ll spread your feathers of doom across the village main street, multiple gardens, and even an outdoor pub in what connects to make up a congruous and fun to explore village – Untitled Goose Game is mostly linear, but side paths will open up to enable shortcuts back and forth.Watch us play through the first area from Untitled Goose Game below:And therein lies the biggest fault in this goose-based adventure: it’s pretty dang short. It only took me about an hour and a half to play through the five main areas of this quaint village, and while I absolutely loved every second of it, I wasn’t ready to give up the gander just yet. This English village ultimately felt like only a single level of a game, but the rest was missing, leaving a whole lot of unexplored territory on the table. I easily could have seen my goose exploring other locales, each with their own unique areas and checklists. It feels like the goose is taken away too soon – like he had so much more mayhem to give.That said, what’s here is lovingly crafted, filled with tiny touches in every corner and with everything made to feel shiny and crisp to both look at and play with. There’s a bit more to do beyond the credits, too, with a new set of checklists appearing with tasks that require you to run between areas for some additional challenge – as well as a bit of speedrunning for those so inclined. It kept me busy for another hour or two, but I still wish this goose had soared a bit further.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate - Banjo and Kazooie DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/09/06/super-smash-bros-ultimate-banjo-and-kazooie-dlc-review|There’s something that just feels right about seeing Banjo and Kazooie in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, right back where they started on a Nintendo platform. What’s even better is that this is the best the bear and bird have ever looked; complete with a modern makeover that stays true to their N64 designs while simultaneously making them more expressive than ever.But as much as I love the look of Banjo and Kazooie in Smash, as much as I love the soundtrack remixes arranged by original composer Grant Kirkhope, and as much as I love the simple fact that they are finally in this game at all, their actual moveset feels like the most underwhelming part of the package.Unlike Hero and Joker, both of whom had very unusual characteristics that set their playstyles dramatically apart from the rest of the roster, Banjo and Kazooie feel pretty straightforward. Their attacks are a tiny bit on the slow side and lack combo potential, making them feel more like a bruiser-style of character than their smallish stature might indicate, defined by hard hitting single strikes and a willingness to plow through attacks to deliver their own.What’s wonderful is that fans of the Banjo-Kazooie games will immediately feel familiar with all of their moves. They’ve got their forward roll on their dash attack, the Rat-a-tat-rap on their jab combo, Beak Barge on their down-tilt, Breegull Bash on their forward-smash, and Beak Buster on their down-air, all of which were either inspired by or taken directly from attacks in their own games. That extends to their specials too, which feature the egg shot, grenade egg bombs, and most notably, the Wonderwing on forward-B - a move that nearly defines this fighter in Ultimate.A ton of love and care went into making Banjo and Kazooie look, sound, and feel just like they you’d expect them too, and it absolutely shows. Beyond just their moves, their idle poses, taunts, sounds, and win screens all feel lovingly reimagined from the N64 titles, which is just awesome to experience as a huge fan of those games.As satisfying as all of that is though, Banjo and Kazooie feel very middle of the road in terms of how fun they are to play. Their standout trait is the Wonderwing side-special move, which is just unbelievably powerful. It’s a forward dashing special move that is nearly invulnerable once it gets going, can deal about 27% damage on hit, and is a reliable kill move when your opponent is at 90-100% and above. It’s absurdly strong, punishes just about anything, but is somewhat balanced by the fact that it’s extremely punishable if you whiff or if your opponent shields it, and Banjo only has five uses of the move per stock.It’s by far their most reliable kill move and punish, and it also helps them recover back to the stage. It’s so necessary to Banjo and Kazooie’s game, in fact, that if you burn through all five of the golden feathers that dictate its usage, they’re left feeling a bit underpowered compared to the rest of the roster since that one attack makes up for many of the other weaknesses in their moveset. With a feather, Banjo and Kazooie must be respected by opponents since they can bully their way through just about anything, effectively nullify certain edge guarding tactics by being completely invulnerable on their way back to the ledge, and punish those trying to keep them out with projectiles. Without a feather, they become incredibly straightforward, armed with just a slow forward-smash, a slow forward-air, and short range up and down smashes as their main kill moves.That said, their down-B egg bomb is very noteworthy, as it gives Banjo and Kazooie an explosive throwable projectile, much like Snake’s grenade. Using this move, which can only be fired backwards, will definitely be the one that separates the good Banjo players from the great ones, as skillful use of it can help combo into Banjo’s side-B as a kill set up. Skillful players can also use it to aid Banjo’s recovery options by grabbing the bomb in air, blowing themselves up, getting their up-b back.Banjo and Kazooie also come with their own new stage in Spiral Mountain, which is a nice, simple stage that features a small flat central platform that rotates, showing off all of the recognizable landmarks of the original Spiral Mountain from Banjo-Kazooie - including Banjo’s House, Gruntilda’s lair, and all the various training areas, complete with cameos from Gruntilda, Tooty, and Bottles. It’s a great stage that provides just the right amount of variation to be interesting for those looking for something more than just a Battlefield or Final Destination, without having any gimmicks that could dramatically affect the outcome of a battle.
Astral Chain Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/08/26/astral-chain-review|PlatinumGames has a reputation for making action games that are both incredibly stylish and delightfully weird. Its latest, the Switch-exclusive Astral Chain, wholeheartedly embraces this tradition and pushes each aspect to the max. This is Platinum at its finest - its innovative combat system cleverly manages to make controlling two characters at once feel intuitive and deeply rewarding. Equally as impressive, the non-combat sequences charmingly bring this peculiar world and the characters who inhabit it to life.The setup is a fairly typical one: after Earth became uninhabitable due to alien pollution, humanity migrated to the Ark, a futuristic metropolis filled with neon lights and, surprise(!), an alien invasion problem of its own.You know, the usual. You play as one of the two Howard twins - male or female - who is a part of an anti-alien task force that fights using robot allies called Legions. That’s where the eponymous Astral Chain comes in - it’s the tether between you and your Legion and lets you see the aliens, which are called Chimeras.Though it’s a boilerplate futuristic dystopia at face value, the plot has some fun twists and turns that keep it mostly entertaining throughout. But while many of the characters ooze personality, the Howard twin you play as sadly isn’t one of them. Many games have silent protagonists, but Astral Chain’s quiet hero feels particularly out of place next to the energetic voice actors behind all the other characters, including whichever twin you didn’t pick, who plays an important role in the story. And it’s not like your character doesn’t have a backstory. I would’ve loved to hear the back and forth between the two siblings instead of having to fill in the blanks based on the hero’s generally expressionless looks.It’s easy to forget about your Howard’s lack of personality once the combat gets started, though. Together with a Legion, the duo of human and machine conduct a symphony of action awesomeness, complete with a flurry of particle effects and stylized animations. I cannot stress enough how ridiculously cool the combat looks in motion, thanks to bright, cartoonish graphics that look great both docked and on the go. While it performs flawlessly in handheld mode, the fast-moving and flashy animations are easier to appreciate on the big screen at higher resolution.Fighting alongside your Legion is held together by intuitive controls. Core attacks are mapped to the triggers and bumpers: you can instantly summon your Legion with ZL, then fling it toward a Chimera using the left stick to attack automatically when in range. Howard’s trio of weapons - the Blaster, police baton, and Gladius (heavy sword) - are mapped to ZR. I preferred a combo of police baton and Blaster, though the Gladius packed a serious and satisfying punch against Chimera whose attack patterns I had memorized.Flashy combos can be strung together easily thanks to the simplistic controls. Attacking Chimeras in tandem with your Legion opens up synchronized attack opportunities that flash on screen. These can stack together if you keep the combo going, but only if you execute perfect dodges. Well-timed dodges slow down time for a moment, giving you room to attack the weaker backsides of Chimeras and string together more synchronized attacks. Chimeras attack frequently, both up close and from afar, so much of the combat revolves around dodging, getting your blows in, then dodging some more.Of course, fights would be too easy if you could keep your Legion in play indefinitely, so they each have limiters that count down. If you let that hit zero without manually recalling them then they’ll take even longer to recharge before you can call them back out to help you. The system forces you to be smart, make swift decisions, and keep a watchful eye on the limiter.The Astral Chain that connects them to you also comes with two cool tricks that complement the combat extraordinarily well. The Chain Jump lets you slingshot across the battlefield toward your Legion, granting you extra mobility around the combat areas. Also, you can also bind Chimeras and hold them in place by encircling them. The former is awesome for dispatching groups of enemies, while the latter is particularly helpful when fighting large bosses who have multiple limbs that you’d rather not have attacking you the whole time.Though Astral Chain lacks a deep combo system, it makes up for that and then some with its roster of Legions. You gradually unlock five of them, each with their own unique play style and action moves. The Sword can slice through Chimeras and sever their defensive systems. The Arrow, quite naturally, can be used to manually shoot arrows that knock flying Chimeras from the sky. You can take a ride on the Beast’s back and its snout and paws are good for getting Chimeras out from under the ground. You can commandeer the Arm and become a mech with giant fists. And the Axe, which you unlock much later than the others, can conjure a protective dome which comes in handy when up against near-undodgeable attacks.Each Legion also has its own skill tree and ability slots for stat and item buffs. It’s a bit of a bummer that most skills are the same across all five Legions, but there are some unique and worthwhile abilities hidden in there. My favorite is the Arm’s Round Bullet, which commands it to spin like a top while shooting blasts in every direction. Overall, the Beast is my Legion of choice, partly because riding the giant dog is a great way to get around, but also because I love how it uses its paws of fury to viciously claw at Chimera.Throughout the 11 lengthy missions Chimeras come in all shapes and sizes, from standard shielded baddies to large four-legged beasts to annoying dudes with huge wings, serpents, and more. Sometimes you have to fight corrupted humans, but thankfully you don’t have to wade through wave upon wave of these mindless grunts. Each mission also has at least a couple of boss Chimeras, some of whom are so large you can only see half of their body on screen while fighting them. They are sometimes reconfigurations of previous boss fights, but most add something new to the mix so they’re not straight repeats.No stylish action game is complete with a rankings system, and in Astral Chain you’re graded for each “case” you complete in a mission, as well as given an overall grade at the end. I’ve already gone back to try to raise my grade in several missions by maximizing style and speed and minimizing damage taken.In a welcome move, Platinum included difficulty options for both aficionados and action newcomers alike. After finishing a mission on Platinum Standard you can try your hand at the harder Platinum Ultimate, which eliminates revives (called batteries) and ups the intensity. On the opposite end of the spectrum is Unchained mode, a customizable difficulty level that lets you toggle 15 different settings to fit your needs. You can go as far as automating combat entirely if you just want to watch the story. The wealth of options reminded me of Celeste’s great Assist mode.Beyond shooting for higher ranks, there are tangible reasons to replay missions, too. The Ark isn’t an open world, but each mission takes place in a large level with numerous optional areas. Sure, you can move through linearly, only speaking to people you need to in order to advance the story, but if you take the time to explore with the all-knowing scanning technology IRIS (which is downright Orwellian) you’ll quickly discover hidden alleyways with side quests, optional combat scenarios, and areas that are inaccessible without the help of a specific Legion. In fact, simply completing the mainline activities in a mission usually amounts to about half the content that’s actually in there. And the optional stuff doesn’t feel like filler - it rounds out the world.Sure, some of it is menial tasks, like helping a man find a burger joint or getting a kid’s balloon out of a tree, but they’re oddly charming. It was hilarious to me that a special agent tasked with saving the world would also take the time to help citizens with arguably non-problems amidst a terrifying alien invasion, but this is hardly the first video game to be ridiculous in that particular way.Even the Neuron Headquarters, the starting and ending point for most missions, is interesting to explore. Here you can buy medicinal items, visit the training room to learn new moves, change cosmetic-only clothing items in the locker room, buy stat buff concoctions from the talking vending machine, upgrade your weapons and Legions, and talk to the other agents who almost always have something interesting to add. The Ark is a strange place and, without spoiling anything, I can say it gets much stranger if you ask around. Despite being framed as a fight to save humanity, Astral Chain still often feels lighthearted. The HQ tour is given by a woman who dresses as a dog mascot named Lappy. She takes it very seriously, and I respect that.In what was a thorough surprise to me, I wound up enjoying the non-combat portions of missions almost as much as the stellar fights. Exploration can take up about half of the campaign’s runtime depending on how diligently you look around, and it never felt like a waste to do so.A number of missions start with investigations. Using the IRIS and your social skills, you have to search for clues to advance the story. Sometimes people will just give you the info you need; other times you have to work for it by running errands, catching bad guys, corralling lost cats, solving riddles, eavesdropping, and more. All of this provides a nice break from the action with quirky and fun dialogue, so I always went out of my way to talk to as many people as I could. At the end of the investigation a teammate asks you what you learned, and if you paid attention to the clues, you can get a good ranking for the sequence. You’ll still move on with wrong answers, but I have to say I very much cared about getting the answers right - the wrong answer sound hurt my soul.On top of that, Astral Chain’s light puzzles and platforming further break up the action. Most of these, like the combat sequences, are found in the hellish Astral Plane you enter through rift gates. While this dreary world of darkness harbors many of the most dangerous Chimeras, it also houses some non-combat challenges for you and your Legions: Shooting arrows to reveal hidden passageways, hopping across platforms through chain leaps, or galloping across gradually disappearing ground on the back of the Beast Legion. None of these sequences are particularly challenging, but they do add to the variety and gave me time to really appreciate my surroundings.
Oninaki Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/08/23/oninaki-review|It can be a lot of fun beating up mean ghosts while possessed by helpful ghosts to eventually free wayward ghosts from their earthly attachments, as I discovered in Oninaki’s stylish action RPG world. Some of the basics of combat feel a bit too clunky and repetitive for it to ascend all the way to the heavens, but the mature storytelling, captivating art, and excellent music had me wanting to stick around like an unfulfilled spectre.While Oninaki’s art style comes across as almost childlike, it works in service of a story that explores lots of deep, dark questions about death, uncertainty, and how we cope with those things. You play as a Watcher, a sort of morally ambiguous ghost cop responsible for making sure departed souls re-enter the cycle of reincarnation rather than hanging around as shadows of their former selves in the spirit world. Sometimes this means going as far as executing someone who can’t let go of the deceased so they can both be at peace, setting a clear tone early on that your journey is going to take you to some disturbing, thought-provoking places.The way that story is told is fairly linear and typical for a JRPG, with too much talking and not enough showing at times. The earlier missions carry an undercurrent of a coherent plot, but largely come across as a series of disjointed anecdotes without much flow between them or relation to a larger, ongoing quest. One of the highlights was getting to discover the buried memories of each of my Daemons – restless spirits who possess willing Watchers to enhance their combat abilities. Every Daemon was someone troubled in life with a secret reason for sticking around as a ghost, and I enjoyed getting to know them little by little as I leveled them up.Daemons aren’t just there to add to the story, though. Each one also gives you a completely new playstyle to experiment with. Aisha, your first Daemon, is a katana master focused on fast strikes and great mobility. Zaav is a heavily-armored knight with a far-reaching lance and strong defensive abilities. Since each one changes everything from your movement to your basic attack capabilities, they are like playing a totally different class or character. Switching out on the fly brings some needed variety to the combat, though I often found I would mostly level one Daemon up and use them the vast majority of the time. There weren’t a lot of places where I felt like I really needed to pick the right fighting style for the task at hand, as opposed to the one I was most comfortable with.There’s quite a bit of customizability with each Daemon, as well. They all possess extensive skill trees and can be equipped with up to three secondary skills, from ranged energy blasts to deadly cross-slashes. Add in the fact that each of these abilities can be upgraded with modifiers like doing more damage or generating more Affinity – a resource that lets you be fully possessed by your Daemon and go into a Super Saiyan-like mode for a limited time – and there are more combinations than I even had time to try. And that’s without getting into the straightforward but satisfying gear system that features upgrading weapons and modifying their properties by slotting in relics called Shadestones. When it comes to character customization, Oninaki doesn’t slouch.Despite all of this, I found the combat to be a little bit unwieldy and repetitive at times. The further into the game I got, the less pronounced this was, with increasing enemy diversity and unlocking new Daemons and abilities. But it never fully went away. Certain abilities, like the movement powers that are vital for avoiding strong attacks, never quite felt responsive enough. A lot of targeted strikes like Aisha’s Tranquil Mind, seemed to miss about half the time on smaller enemies even if it looked like I lined it up right. Using the right stick to aim often over-corrects for tiny nudges instead of actually pointing in the direction I’m pushing. I just got a lingering sense every time I was in combat that there were a few screws that needed some tightening for everything to feel as satisfying as it should.The graphics and the music don’t need any such tweaking, though. The characters, enemies, and environments are colorful but muted, supporting the feeling of traveling through a fairy tale land with lots of hidden pain and sadness lingering just below the surface. Somber mood pieces effectively accentuate many heartbreaking story moments that I didn’t see coming. And the boss music, which is energetic and woven with Celtic flair, is downright excellent.The bosses themselves are well-designed, challenging fights that could have really shined in a game with slightly tighter combat. Each is larger-than-life, ready to demolish you with fluid, impactful animations and plenty of tricks up their sleeves to keep you on your toes. Some of the normal enemies, especially later on, show a bit of this cunning. But just as often, I’d see a small group of them standing around doing nothing as if their AI had bugged out or something, even after being attacked.
Far: Lone Sails Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/08/16/far-lone-sails-review|Far: Lone Sails came out on PC on May 17, 2018 and PS4 and Xbox One on April 2, 2019. We are using its release on Nintendo Switch on August 18, 2019 as an opportunity to review it on all four platforms since we hadn't previously.Some folk say you can’t truly appreciate the highs of life if you haven’t felt the lows. Whether you believe that or not, it’s a lesson Far: Lone Sails takes to heart. It’s full of tense, nerve-wracking scenarios as you struggle to keep your fuel-guzzling/wind-powered hybrid vehicle running smoothly across a long-dead world. But buried between those hardships are beautiful moments of peace that shine brighter for it - the calm times where fair winds let me unfurl my sails and simply glide along to Far: Lone Sails’ incredible soundtrack were some of the most magical I’ve had in a game.At first glance, Far: Lone Sails might remind you of games like Inside and Limbo - a comparison I don’t think is unfair. Its mostly monotone color palette and “scroll from left to right, don’t ask why” structure must’ve been inspired by Playdead’s work. But instead of just having some simple platforming puzzles to solve, here you’re also piloting a large contraption that’s alternately driven by either massive, engine-powered wheels or a set of tattered, collapsable sails.Most of the time you’ll be inside that vessel, hopping around its guts as it trundles through a harsh, seemingly post-apocalyptic world - the cause is never explained, but most of what you're driving across looks like a dried-up ocean. You’ll have to feed fuel barrels into the machine's tank, release pressure that builds up (which will also give you a boost) before it explodes, and put out fires or make simple repairs as things inevitably go wrong. Very little of what you’re doing or why you’re doing it is explicitly told to you, but by the end of the roughly three-hour story you’ll be driving like a pro and probably have a good idea as to why.But this isn’t just a traveling game. Between open stretches of road (often filled with obstacles to overcome or hazards, like weather, to avoid) are occasional blockades in your path. You might come across a gate you’ll need to unlock, forcing you to hop out of your vehicle and search around on foot for exactly how to do that before you can proceed. These discreet levels break up the pace nicely and can occasionally offer some intriguing platforming puzzles to challenge you.During those stops (and often along the way to them) you’ll also be scavenging as much fuel as you possibly can to stow on hooks in your already cramped ship. There’s an enjoyable stress that comes from worrying about how much fuel you have - though it’s a fear that may be slightly scarier in your mind than in reality, since fuel is in safe abundance if you are good about grabbing it frequently and burning it efficiently. That undercuts that tension just a tad toward the end of your journey, and can make the world a little less mysterious on repeat playthroughs.But what’s clever about how Far: Lone Sails silently teaches you how to play is that it starts things off simple - so simple that you won’t even have those signature sails at first. It lets you get you comfortable with the basics of fueling and piloting your ship, then slowly starts adding upgrades and improvements to your vehicle along the way so you can learn them one at a time. That not only introduces complexity as you grow more comfortable with the workings of the machine, it’s also massively rewarding to see it tangibly grow and change as you progress.Think about Portal’s fantastic Companion Cube gag: GLaDOS’s jokey narration pushes you toward empathizing with an inanimate object only slightly different from the common ones you see everywhere. There’s a real (if blatantly ridiculous) connection formed, but with a punchline as you unceremoniously throw your new friend into a furnace moments later. It’s funny and memorable, but it’s a connection that’s overtly forced upon you at the end of the day.The connection I created with my ramshackle mobile home in Far: Lone Sails, a different sort of inanimate object, was another kind altogether. There’s no dialogue and barely any text at all on this trip, so your only companion is your bulky machine. It’s all you have, and you have to stay with it in the same way you would your Companion Cube. I kept it fueled, kept it repaired, felt sadness when it broke, and pride when it got upgraded. After all, you rely on it as much as it relies on you.Not to rag on Portal (which is a truly wonderful game) but Far: Lone Sails didn’t need comical voice acting and funny wall art to make me fall in love with my ship. The symbiotic relationship at play (and the isolation that relationship occurs in) was enough to do that without anyone ever speaking a word. I don’t think it’s a coincidence that its round fuel gauge looks like a giant, glowing eye when you zoom out, slowly closing and getting sleepier as the reserve runs low.Seeing that gauge droop can be a great kind of stressful, and that anxiety makes moments where the wind finally picks up and you don’t need to rely on fuel downright euphoric. I could turn the engine off entirely, raise the sails, and just cruise, not worrying about pressure releases or fueling plans. I’d usually hop up onto the roof and zoom out, too, taking in Far: Lone Sail’s gorgeous environments and downright award-worthy music whenever the wind allowed it. It’s hard to describe how much I truly loved the bliss of these moments.Building atmosphere like this is easily Far: Lone Sails’ greatest strength, and it’s the reason I’d recommend everyone play it with headphones. Letting myself get sucked into this world enhanced the experience greatly, and I loved curiously picking up unique little objects from every stop I made. By the end, the bedroom area of my vehicle - a tiny little nook not used for anything beyond added flavor - was overflowing with odds and ends that made my ship feel a little more like home. A radio, a flower, a bell, a blue ball - things no one told me to pick up and might not have any gameplay implications, but I still wanted to keep with me all the same.Being immersed in that world also helped me forgive some of Far: Lone Sails’ clunkier aspects. Hoarding items, even useful fuel barrels and boxes, inevitably makes it frustrating to move around the interior of your vehicle, which is not exactly smooth to begin with. The only way to get between floors is a central elevator that doesn’t behave quite as intuitively as I wished it did, and the fact that the button to brake is positioned just behind the button to boost meant I’d sometimes accidentally hit the latter on the way to the former.These annoyances are almost exclusively present inside the machine itself, which does add a bit of thematic tension: piloting it alone feels appropriately like a struggle. I think the occasional rough edge could have been smoothed out while still making that point, but I was so immersed in the world surrounding those hassles and the journey of my little nameless character and their trusty mechanical steed that I didn’t mind a frustrating elevator ride here and there.Far: Lone Sails is also full of incredible, distinct events that still stick out in my head - each of which often had its own song that can quickly throw me back into the feelings that encounter evoked when I listen to them on Spotify (which I often do). Months after my first playthrough, I still fondly remember hiding my machine from a hailstorm, manually upgrading its wheels, maneuvering it across a lift bridge, and plenty of other epic set pieces that I don’t want to spoil. It’s not a long game, but it’s certainly not a thin one either.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate: Hero DLC Review |https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/08/01/super-smash-bros-ultimate-hero-dlc-review|The Smash Bros. DLC train keeps rolling along with the introduction of Dragon Quest’s Hero, and while Persona 5’s Joker is a tough act to follow, Hero keeps the ride running smoothly. He’s the second of five currently planned characters that are part of Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’s Fighter Pass, all of which are available separately as well for $5.99 each. And while he may be called by the generic title of “Hero,” his RNG-heavy implementation in Smash Bros. is anything but.On the surface, Hero seems like a hodgepodge of other swordsmen characters. There’s a little bit of Ike and Shulk in his wide-sweeping and powerful arching aerials; a lot of Link in his projectile-nullifying shield, dash attack, and dual side-hitting down-smash; along with a touch of several other Fire Emblem characters in his upward-stabbing up-smash and chargeable lighting and fire projectiles, a la Robin.While his normal attacks are a bit underwhelming and familiar thanks to those similarities, things really get interesting when it comes to his specials. First off, they’re all governed by an MP meter, with every move having its own MP cost. If you run out of MP, you must either wait for it to replenish very slowly over time or land regular hits to regain about one MP for every percent of damage he deals. It’s a mechanically crucial and thematically appropriate balancing mechanic that allows Hero to have these superpowered moves while keeping them in check and also feeling true to the Dragon Quest universe.His up-, side-, and neutral-B attacks can all be charged up to three levels, which is a fun way to incorporate the tiered spells of Dragon Quest. It also has a small nuance that separates it from other chargeable specials: unlike Samus, Donkey Kong, Mewtwo, and Lucario, who can all store their charges by canceling out of the animation with a shield or a roll, Hero must complete the charge in order to hold on to his level three neutral-B fireball. If he cancels it early, he must start the charge from the beginning, which is great because it allows the charge to be quicker than other charge moves, while having its own unique drawback that prevents it from being too powerful.At level one, his fireball is a pretty standard forward-moving projectile. At level two, it travels farther and hits harder – but if you manage to charge it to level three it hits like an absolute truck, and your reward for all your effort is 37 percent damage with tremendous knockback.His level two and three charged side-B lightning attack are extraordinarily powerful as well, but if you rely on either of them too much you risk leaving yourself without the MP required to use them again in the future. Draining your MP can also dramatically limit your ability to come back to the stage when knocked off, since his up-B needs MP too.But it’s Hero’s down-B that really makes this character special. Pressing it brings up an RPG-like menu with four randomly selected special moves out of a whopping pool of 17; these run the gamut from being practically useless, like Kaclang, which turns you into an invulnerable steel statue for several seconds, to the recklessly dangerous Kamikaze, which is guaranteed to KO yourself while creating a powerful explosion that can easily take foes down with you.There’s even the inconsistent but potentially deadly Thwack, which creates a huge AoE spell that has a chance to just instantly vaporize enemies that get caught in it. The higher your damage percentage the more likely it is you’ll get KO’d when Thwack hits, but it’s still entirely possible that you could potentially get killed instantly at a low percent with a lucky Thwack, or its lesser version, Whack. It’s an overpowered move balanced by the amount of time it takes to recognize it in the menu, select it, and then the time it takes for the move to come out. That being said, if you were to mash down-B and it just so happened to appear in the top slot, you could have a fast, wide hitting, potentially insta-KOing attack ...or you could blow yourself up with a kamikaze.This high reliance on randomness is a double-edged sword. It succeeds in making Hero stand out from the rest of Ultimate’s massive roster, despite him being another swordsman with very familiar moves. And his kit seems specifically designed to generate those hype, pop-off moments that Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is so good at delivering – especially with his smash attacks having a one-in-eight chance of critical hitting for extra damage and knockback.However, it also makes Hero feel inconsistent. Without his down-B, he feels like a solid character with heavy hitting normals, a great recovery, and extremely powerful projectiles that are kept in check thanks to the MP meter. With his down-B, though, he’s the unpredictable embodiment of chaos, capable of stealing stocks away from skilled opponents with moves like Kaboom, Magic Explosion, Thwack, and Snooze, while also being likely to throw his own away with an accidental Kamikaze, Hocus Pocus, or Kaclang.
Kill la Kill The Game: IF Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/07/26/kill-la-kill-the-game-if-review|At first glance, Kill la Kill The Game: IF passes the fighting game smell test. With sharp cel-shaded cutscenes, including loving recreations of critical moments from the beloved Hiroyuki Imaishi anime series and the endorsement of its animation studio Trigger, developer APlus and publisher Arc System Works want you to see and get excited about the prospect of an authentic, official Kill la Kill game. Unfortunately, authenticity isn’t everything. Kill la Kill The Game: IF feels like a stripped-down version of the prototypical 3D anime fighter. Its loose, mashy fighting fails to create the opportunities for strategic depth I’ve come to expect in great fighting games. Meanwhile, its story and single-player modes feel less than substantial.Kill la Kill The Game: IF is a fairly basic version of what we've seen in other 3D anime fighting games like Jump Force or the Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm series. Unlike those games, Kill la Kill's matches are one-on-one duels, and take place on dull, flat arenas. The fighting is very simple, with each character using his or her own versions of the same three attacks: a close-range punch or strike, a chargeable long-distance projectile or dash attack, and a slow-moving heavy hit that breaks your opponent’s guard. Fighters also have flashy, powerful versions of each attack called deathblows, which are limited by a special meter. They do more damage, though not so much that pulling one off feels particularly satisfying, even if they come with a short cutscene intro to make them feel more epic.Though the controls are simple, the characters attack styles are not completely identical. Certain characters have variations that may push you to approach a fight in specific, sometimes unintuitive ways. For example, Ira Gamagoori, a BDSM-inspired character who whips himself to build up power, takes a very small amount of damage when he blocks to build up his strength, which then makes his attacks more powerful. Other character’s eccentricities are much smaller - Uzu Sanageyama, the oversized, armored fighter with a wooden sword, has a charged version of his heavy attack that teleports directly behind his opponent. Unfortunately, there are no character-specific tutorials to help you learn each of their variations, so you will need to figure out how each character works through trial and error.Though the attacks and fighting styles distinguish one character from another, it’s hard to avoid the feeling that you’re just mashing your way to victory. There’s a system in place where blocks beat attacks, guard breaks beat guards, and dodges beat guard breaks, but with an air dash that can reach your opponent from any distance and a lot of single-button combos, it still feels like just rushing in and mashing an attack button is the optimal strategy. You can spend half your special meter to burst out of combos using the Bloody Valor system, a mid-match minigame-style mechanic, but it doesn’t do a great job of teaching you this. If you don’t know it, or recently used Bloody Valor already, then trading strings of hits doesn’t feel particularly enthralling when dishing it out, and can be exasperating when you have to take it.Bloody Valor is ostensibly a “comeback” tool, offering some recourse when you’re in a one-sided fight, but it does more harm than good. It's a rock-paper-scissors-style power-up mechanic, letting you spend half of your special meter to gamble for a battlefield advantage (such as healing your wounds or recharging your super meter) and raise your Ketsui level, which makes you generally more powerful. If you initiate Bloody Valor and win, you do it again to gain an even larger advantage. If you can win multiple challenges in a row, you’ll charge up a match-ending super move called a Lost Fiber Secret Art.And if you start a Bloody Valor and lose? You lose a little health. There’s little incentive not to try it as often as possible, especially if you’re outmatched, which breaks up the flow of the fight in an unwelcome way. I’m not a fan of injecting random, tide-turning game mechanics into fighting games. Putting stat boosts and a match-winning attack at the end of a minigame separates the prospect of winning from your skill in combat, and undermines the fight as a whole.The best defense may be Kill la Kill The Game: IF’s incomprehensible camera. Rather than following your character, the camera floats freely around the arena allowing your fighter to move out of focus or even all the way to the background, making it difficult to keep track of what you’re doing. There were times, particularly while playing the story mode, when I lost track of my fighter because the camera didn’t move as anticipated. There’s no auto-center button or way to turn the seemingly randomized camera off. You have to learn to go with the flow, which… I’d rather not. Fighting games are intense enough when you can keep track of the action.Despite being a fighting game, and therefore inherently multiplayer-focused, Kill la Kill The Game: IF puts single-player first. Its primary mode is its story-driven campaigns, a pair of abridged retellings of the original anime series’ final two-thirds -with some key differences that bring the playable fighters to blows in ways the original story wouldn’t allow. You should know right from the get-go: It’s all fan service, and you’re expected to know the whole Kill la Kill saga before you start, which makes sense for a tie-in game but feels limiting.Though the campaigns are short - each one takes about three hours to complete - both feel like they drag on for far too long. The campaigns follow Satsuki Kiryuin and Ryuko Matoi, respectively, and are only ten fights apiece, including a mix of standard one-on-one matches, three-way duels, and brawler-esque engagements with dozens of generic “cover” opponents. The multi-character fights and brawls add some variety, but all three types are used repeatedly so they don’t feel especially refreshing by the end. Plus, that wayward camera has a tendency to make some of the fights borderline unreadable.The real issue with the campaigns are the wait times between each fight. Long cutscenes separate each match, full of expository dialogue that rushes you through the plot. Though the cutscenes look good and are well shot, it doesn’t feel like much is happening if you know major plot points already, and isn’t effective storytelling if it’s new to you. Instead, the changes sprinkled throughout feel like they exist to facilitate fights, rather than make the story interesting in a new way.The poor balance of cutscene to combat also seems to be in service of the story. During the campaigns, you’re restricted to the protagonists’ perspectives, to the point where you wind up watching fights take place in cutscenes rather than playing them yourself. In some cases, you watch multiple scenes and progress through entire chapters of the story without fighting at all.Even if it weren’t mostly recounting events fans already know - key moments from the anime like the Naturals Election and the Great Culture and Sports Festival take up multiple chapters - the perpetual wait to pick up your controller and start playing tested my patience to the point where I wasn’t particularly interested in watching.While I didn’t love how long and redundant the cutscenes were, I will say there were very well made. Kill la Kill The Game: IF employs an elegant cel-shaded art style both in gameplay and cutscenes. It isn’t as inventive as the multi-faceted art style of the anime, but it’s clean, looks good, and really does feel like watching an anime in its rare, exciting moments. In cutscenes, the art gets an aesthetic boost from strong cinematography, which makes many sequences, especially action scenes, look striking.But the story fails to give you additional insight into the characters or world of the anime series. Despite the fact that it was “supervised” by the Kill la Kill anime scriptwriter Kazuki Nakashima, giving it an air of canonical importance, IF's story bends over backwards to make sure you know that what happens is of absolutely no consequence to the story you already know.The story is clearly the centerpiece of Kill la Kill The Game: IF, so much so that you are required to play at least some of it before doing anything else - the training and local versus modes only unlock after completing the first chapter. Online play isn’t available until after chapter six. I, and I think most fighting game fans would agree, that this is a cardinal sin. There will always be people who just want to jump into fighting with friends or simply don’t care about the campaign. Forcing you to consume even a small part of it feels, quite frankly, out of touch.Kill la Kill The Game: IF offers sturdy but sparse online support. Players have access to casual unranked play, which relies primarily on lobbies and trading codes to sync up with specific players. There’s also a ranked mode that uses more traditional matchmaking where your wins and losses get recorded on global leaderboards. Separating the different types of matchmaking feels needlessly restrictive and may make it harder for players to find matches one way or the other. On the plus side, in the five matches I was able to play on PlayStation 4 ahead of launch I experienced no serious lag or connection issues.You'll also unlock new modes, various collectibles, and other characters as you progress, growing the paltry starting roster of six fighters to a still meager ten, including secondary versions of the two story protagonists. Two more characters are coming as free DLC later “this summer,” but even 12 characters feels light when the anime is jam-packed with weird, wonderful supporting characters who could add variety and personality to the lineup.In addition to the story mode, Kill la Kill The Game: IF has a few extra single-player modes, including a training room, a single-player Survival Challenge mode where you continue fighting opponents until you die, and Covers Challenge, which is a wave-based brawler mode where you fight groups of generic enemies similar to some of the fights from the story campaigns. Though these modes present options to play solo using any fighter, including the more interesting characters not usable in the main campaigns, they lose their luster quickly with such a small roster.
Fire Emblem: Three Houses Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/07/25/fire-emblem-three-houses-review|Before its resurgence in popularity on the 3DS handhelds, there was a time where the Fire Emblem series once lived on home consoles. Twelve years after Radiant Dawn on Wii, Fire Emblem: Three Houses has finally returned to the living room on the Switch, and it’s better than ever. With a vast and open base hub to explore, new ways to turn the tide of battle with your chosen band of colorful characters, and a story that’s as brutal as the choices you’ll have to make on the battlefield, Three Houses is everything I’ve ever wanted in a turn-based strategy game. Its grand adventure is filled with drama and intrigue across whichever of the titular three houses you choose to join, and each brings its own unique perspective. Following just one of these paths from humble beginnings to a full-blown war for dominance took me over 70 hours, and left me hungry for more.Battles take full advantage of the relatively powerful Switch (as opposed to the 3DS) to create some impressive looking maps. With new battalions that you can equip to enhance and support your units, armies actually start to look like armies as the map zooms right into the fight to show the opposing forces slam into each other. The music dynamically shifts when moving into combat from its upbeat rhythm to heighten the percussion — raising the tension in the process — before soaring back over the battlefield. I was amazed to find you can even zoom in when inspecting the map to glide along the terrain and see the armies assembled, taking in some extraordinary sights that you’d normally only get glimpses of in combat. You’re even able to select and command units by having them run around the field while zoomed in instead of just picking a map point to move to — though it’s a lot harder to get a sense of the battle from this angle.Fans of the series may notice that the traditional “weapon triangle” of swords beat axes beat lances beat swords has been all but abandoned in Three Houses. Instead, there’s a bigger emphasis on choosing the right weapon for the right person — depending on their skill level and the stats of the weapon itself (swords still have the best overall accuracy, while axes unleash the most raw power, and lances are balanced in the middle). Training up units unlocks many custom moves to make them more effective against armored or cavalry units, and those with high enough proficiency can even unlock “breaker” skills to give them advantages against a certain weapon type which brings back that weapon superiority feel. Because of this, I hardly noticed the weapon triangle’s exclusion.I was especially surprised to see several combat arts lifted from the Fire Emblem Heroes mobile game, of all places, and the inclusion of strategic unit repositioning abilities was a most welcome one, allowing me to swap, shove, or quickly relocate my more vulnerable units out of danger. Having equippable battalions of troops that could bolster an individual character’s stats meant new strategies too, including the ability to stun attackers in place – and beware, the enemy can use that trick on you if you get complacent in simply forming a wall of tough units. That made me rethink my defensive strategies.Permanent character death is still present if you so choose, and the thought of losing your best units feels as terrifying as ever, until you realize how many options are available to you. Being able to rewind time a bit (which made its debut in the last 3DS game) alleviates many of those fears, and seeing which units your enemies plan to attack can save you a lot of grief as long as you’re paying attention. I appreciate that if you challenge yourself to keep going after a beloved character falls, there are many opportunities to try and recruit faculty or students from other houses to join your ranks — or even ask another student to tag along for a single mission.Unlike those that came before it, Three Houses provides a welcome respite from battle after battle by introducing the Garreg Mach Monastery, a huge explorable fortress that’s home to both a church housing the dominant religion of the land, and an officer’s academy for the three nations that make up the continent of Fodlan. Students are divided into houses representing these nations, and you’ll choose one of the houses to teach and lead into battle. Imagine Harry Potter’s Hogwarts except teenagers come to learn how to do battle instead of magic and Dumbledore is also the archbishop of a powerful militarized church who routinely orders teachers to lead students to war against bandits and blasphemers.The houses of the Black Eagles, Blue Lions, and Golden Deer are unique in more ways than one. Each boasts a lively cast of endearing characters that instantly drew me in, and their individual skills, flaws, and personalities offer an incredible amount of possibilities. Even though your initial house choice is only skin deep, each one gives you so much to work with and discover along the way. What really excited me was just how fleshed out each character was beyond the face value of their personality archetype — and how interconnected and important their own stories were to the world at large.Ingrid from the Blue Lions house idealizes knighthood due to her late fiance (who was the brother of another student), but his recent tragic death caused her to be deeply mistrustful of the people she believes to be responsible (which includes yet another classmate). The young leaders themselves — Edelgard, Dimitri, and Claude — are equally full of promise in both their abilities and backgrounds, and leave enough of an air of mystery to leave you wholly unprepared for where their stories lead when war engulfs the land after a five-year time jump.But a continental war of this scale doesn’t just happen overnight. Instead, you’ll spend the first half of Three Houses’ epic 70-hour campaign acclimating to life at the monastery through teaching students, wandering the grounds, and undertaking missions for the church. Where instructing students is concerned, Three Houses could have easily fallen into the pitfall of monotony. Instead, the entire process of building up your students’ abilities and combat arts is quick and efficient, and can even be automated if you so choose. Training becomes a very satisfying way to alter the makeup of your army and adapt to new confrontations. For instance, when my land-heavy army had to fight along the water, being able to plan ahead and reclass several units into wyvern and pegasus riders made me feel like a tactical mastermind. If you don’t feel like spending time setting specific goals for your team or nurturing budding talents, letting Three Houses automate the process still ensures your units will follow their own class goals and be ready to fight.Three Houses moves the story along on a month-to-month basis, and with a week’s worth of decision making done at a time (which concludes in a few short moments), the bulk of your time is spent on free days at the end of the week, and the story mission battle that caps off each month. You’re smartly given multiple options on how to spend each day off — which lets each of us focus on what we want out of Three Houses. The “Explore” option lets you walk around the impressively sized monastery in a fully 3D environment — a series first. It’s practically bursting at the seams with students and faculty wandering the grounds, so it’s no surprise that I encountered a few areas of minor slowdown when trying to sprint through crowded areas. Fast-traveling gets around that annoyance, of course.There's so much to see and do that it becomes almost overwhelming, and thankfully the additional areas and activities are gradually rolled out over the course of the year you spend teaching. Despite my lust for battle, I was excited to come back each new month to find new opportunities, like going to the monastery pond for a fishing minigame and then cooking up the fish into stat-boosts for my team, or entering students in tournaments and watching them endure a tough gauntlet of fights to win prizes. Certain activities limit how much you can do in a session, adding an additional element of strategy as you plan out how to spend your finite time. Even hosting tea parties to raise your bonds with a character requires some strategy — as you’ll need to keep your partner interested by picking from a list of conversation topics that reward you for paying attention to what that character’s likes and dislikes are.The amount of choice and freedom of how to spend free days is impressive, and there are pros and cons for every option. If you stick with only one option on your days off, you may find your character and team slipping in certain areas. By exploring the monastery, I was able to chat with students to unlock support conversations and raise motivations, as well as getting faculty training for my own character. But training up skill levels is nothing without a character’s own experience, and by taking on auxiliary missions I was able to line my pockets and increase unit levels and stats so they could hit harder using the skills they learned from my teaching. Even resting on a day off ensures that students have an increased amount of motivation to raise their skills during the next week’s lessons, which can heavily impact how much they can learn from a week’s session. I found myself changing up my plans from month to month to better prioritize whatever I felt was lacking, and never once felt like I made a wrong turn to where I was unable to continue. If I had chosen to neglect my time at the monastery, I’d likely miss out on some interesting conversations, whereas if I passed over all the side quest battles, I might have missed out some rare loot. Not only does this Fire Emblem have choices that appeal to everyone, it does so in a way that never gets in the way of a continually rewarding sense of progress.Bonding with your characters and learning more about them via support conversations has become increasingly popular in Fire Emblem games over the years, and to say Three Houses pulls out all the stops to serve that ever-growing demand doesn’t do it justice. The writers and voice actors have done an impeccable job of making each character’s quirks, hopes, and fears seem believable — and having a chance to pick some dialogue options (some answers can even further increase your bond) is a nice touch that made me feel more involved instead of just a bystander.It also shows admirable restraint: Three Houses has dialed back on concepts like every character being able to become romantically involved with any other character, and the resulting conversations are better and more focused for it. I especially loved seeing the more hostile character interactions, as having units that worked well together in battle but not in the monastery made these relationships feel more nuanced and human. Certain conversations are only available once the war is underway in part two, giving actual weight to the idea that years have passed since the last heartfelt talk.My only real complaint comes not from the conversations themselves, but the settings they happen in. Instead of putting both characters in a legitimate 3D room for their scenes, they are placed in front of a still image backdrop that’s been warped to create the illusion of a 3D environment, and the results range from distracting to disastrous due to the low resolution of the background. Still, I’m thankful there’s at least a healthy dose of character animations happening to distract from what’s going on behind them.While the monastery is loaded with an impressive amount of side activities, Fire Emblem is still, at its heart, a turn-based strategy game — if they’re not your cup of tea (sometimes quite literally) you’re able to skip right to the main story mission of the month and automate everything else. I don’t entirely recommend doing so (the amount of story content and activity rewards in exploring the monastery at least once a month should absolutely not be missed), and yet it’s a testament to how much work has gone into making every choice viable in Three Houses. You might be making things harder on yourself by hitting that automation button, but you’ll still find your team adequately skilled and ready to fight at the end of each month.As for the missions themselves, I was really hoping to see more varied main objectives besides the usual “defeat the enemy commander” or “rout the opposing army.” Thankfully, many missions include some interesting side objectives — like racing to the aid of trapped allies or cutting off the escape route of thieves — that rewards you for taking on more risks in a heated battle. While Three Houses provides an assortment of enemies to go up against, the three-way battles between the titular groups are easily some of the standout missions of the bunch, and depict the chaos of battle alarmingly well. One such mission (which you can see an excerpt of in the video below) against the other teams found me trying to avoid antagonizing Claude’s matured group of Golden Deer students to the west while moving the bulk of my units up to hit Edelgard’s Black Eagles forces in the east. Without warning, Claude revealed a horde of mounted reinforcements to my side and behind me before all of them charged straight towards my own character — leaving me just a single turn to find a way to reform my ranks before getting flanked. These particular battles required constant rethinking of strategies to emerge unscathed, not to mention having to kill many characters I once regarded as friends at the monastery.The story of Three Houses is expertly woven into the world it builds up: one that’s full of political intrigue, deception, and even religious dogma. While part one largely focuses on the mysteries surrounding your own character and their connection to the world and the Church of Seiros, it also sets the groundwork for the transformations of the young leaders set to rule their respective realms. In my first playthrough, I ended up choosing the Blue Lions and aiding the young prince, Dimitri, and I’m extremely glad I did. The way Three Houses reveals darker aspects of Dimitri’s past culminates in a satisfying way, and watching his character arc unfold through the second act was incredibly engaging, down to the way his shouts when performing critical moves reflected his changing personality. I loved how much attention was focused on the relationships between the opposing leaders, Dimitri and Edelgard, in the route I chose, though I did feel like Claude got the short end of the stick in terms of screen time — at least in the Blue Lions path.Even though your days as a teacher are over in the second part of the story, fate has you returning to the monastery regardless of your chosen path to use as a base of operations during the war, and the lack of new activities for your second year at the monastery felt like a bit of a missed opportunity to keep exploration fresh by the end. That said, seeing my students return all grown up was an especially great moment, as was learning how each of them had to adapt during an age of conflict. Three Houses rarely shys away from the grim realities of war — as many of the opponents you’ll have to face were once students themselves, and the ramifications of fighting former friends is not lost upon your team. An especially somber moment came after a tough battle where one of my units — who I had convinced to join my house five years prior — quietly reflected on how we had just killed her former friend.
Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/07/18/marvel-ultimate-alliance-3-the-black-order-review|The story itself is one we’ve heard a lot lately: Thanos is hunting for the Infinity Stones and you have to find all six before he does. It’s a new telling of some extremely well-tread ground, but the writing and voice acting still manage to capture the funny, self-deprecating, and occasionally overdramatic attitude I love about big comic book stories. The campaign also acts as a tour of Marvel’s greatest hits, taking you to lovely renditions of places like Avengers Tower, The Raft prison, and even the wonderfully nostalgic Xavier Institute.In the tradition of the original decade-old games in this series, Ultimate Alliance 3 is a totally linear button mashing beat-’em-up. You run through locations in order, strung together by plenty of amusing and well-animated cutscenes, with only some lightly hidden collectibles to pull you off the main path. Thankfully, these environments are dotted with plenty of mid-level boss fights and loads of quippy hero banter that kept me smiling even when the straightforward levels were otherwise relatively predictable.And, of course, within those locations are a whole boatload of heroes - far more than you’ll actually play as during its 12-hour campaign. There are more than 30 playable characters to swap between to make up your team of four, and lots more will drift in and out of the story as NPCs who fight alongside you or point you toward the next encounter. While I would have liked to be able to control some of those support characters like Beast, the sheer volume of heroes (and villains) on display here made Ultimate Alliance 3 feel appropriately epic.Besides, it’s not like there aren’t enough playable characters to choose from. All of the big names like Iron Man and Captain America are here, but it was also exciting to see both some of the smaller characters like Ms. Marvel as well as longtime X-Men favorites like Nightcrawler join the fray alongside the MCU regulars. Each of them has a set of four playstyle-defining abilities that unlock quickly as they level up, and while there’s a bit of overlap between similar characters like Peter Parker (who is even voiced by the PS4 Spider-Man’s Yuri Lowenthal), Miles Morales, and Spider-Gwen, they each still have little twists that set them apart, like Gwen’s widespread webs or Miles’ shock-based attacks.Each hero also has a ridiculously over-the-top Extreme move that can fill the screen with damage. One of my favorites of these is Venom’s, in which melts into a puddle of black symbiote ooze before emerging from the center as a giant, fanged mouth like a scene out of Jaws. I love that you can easily chain these Extreme moves together with the press of a button if you had more than one character charged at the right moment, though using all four at once was the only time I occasionally saw Ultimate Alliance 3’s frame rate take a hit (which is understandable given the visual chaos they can cause).The only drawback with having so many character choices is that I constantly wanted to change up my team and play around with everyone I could. While there’s nothing stopping you from playing with all these action figures, it’s discouraged slightly by the character-specific experience system. When I changed Captain Marvel out for The Wasp in Avengers Tower, or Spider-Gwen for Psylock to take down some Sentinels, it meant the experience gains were spread in a thin layer across my roster, leaving them underleveled as I went forward.There is an Alliance Enhancement skill tree that offers global stat buffs to all your heroes, but it didn’t feel like it mitigated this issue much. I eventually had to start focusing more on a select cast (or using newly unlocked characters who start at levels appropriate to the area you are in) which inevitably left some of my favorites like Miles and Venom in the dust in the late game. I found myself occasionally using characters just because they were a high level, not because I particularly liked them - looking at you, Ghost Rider.You can get around that by grinding your squad through previous chapters or completing the optional Infinity Trials for XP Cubes to give them a boost, but I didn’t really want to since the story is simply more fun. I ended up sticking with the same team for the last few chapters - Wolverine, Dr. Strange, Storm, and the absolutely vicious Black Panther - both because I liked how they worked together and to make sure they were strong enough to avoid grinding entirely.Ultimate Alliance 3’s combat is fairly simplistic, with the strategy coming more from timing, team composition, and Energy management than actual combat skill. Apart from their four abilities, every hero has a light attack that you can string together, as well as a heavy attack that lands as a single big hit. There’s also a mid-air attack, a block, and a dodge, but otherwise that’s pretty much it.There are no fancy button combos to memorize or special attack patterns to use, so you’ll be spamming that light attack a lot in between abilities. That can definitely get stale all on its own, and while the enemies you face will change visually in interesting and exciting ways - you might be fighting Kree soldier in one level and Hand ninjas in another - the differences in their behavior and attacks never really altered the way I went about punching them to a pulpLarger generic enemies and mid-level bosses like Mysterio, Nebula, or Bullseye make things more interesting with a purple Stagger bar; instead of just whacking them, I had to use heavy attacks and abilities with high Stagger damage to take that bar down. Once it’s empty, you have a brief window to land a Synergy ability - essentially two heroes using complementary abilities at the same time, which is made easier through button clear button prompts - to stun them for a longer period, during which they take considerably more damage. Your abilities all cost Energy, so figuring out the right balance of using it to Stagger and having some left over for a synergy stun was an interesting puzzle that often changed based on the level I was in or the heroes I was using. Fights are still very mashy, and I definitely wish characters had more than their extremely simple two-button basic attacks, but I still found myself consistently engaged in Ultimate Alliance 3’s combat for far longer than I expected.That said, those puzzles are only truly challenging to solve on the Mighty difficulty setting, with the Friendly mode letting you get away with a bit more of an ability-spamming approach. Apart from big, villainous fights that turn up the heat, Mighty isn’t crazy hard or anything, but it actually forces you to play smart. Bosses like Kingpin or Ultron can easily eat up your three hero revives, even if most groups of basic enemies can still be torn through like tissue paper - which makes a certain amount of sense, because where’s the fun in being Hulk if you struggle to take down a group of ninjas?Part of that difficulty is also influenced by how many people you are playing with. Ultimate Alliance 3 can be played solo but it feels like it was really meant to be played in co-op with up to four players, either locally or online (though we weren’t able to test out the online functionality ahead of this review). Combat gets both easier and harder in co-op, depending on the situation: your teammates generally make smarter decisions than the AI but synergy moves and attack timings are often trickier to coordinate than it is with the simple button inputs it takes while playing alone.You can drop in and out of co-op at will, but be warned that Ultimate Alliance 3’s Stagger system (while a good addition overall) actually makes it a harder game for a visiting friend to blindly pick up and play. The concept is taught well in the first level, but isn’t intuitive or easy to read at a glance if someone joins you after that. I found players who jumped in to join me in the middle of a mission wouldn’t really understand why just smashing buttons wildly wasn’t working so well. It especially didn’t help halfway through the campaign when a big chunk of my roster was underleveled, often meaning the character someone wanted to play was missing abilities or just sort of weak.It can still be chaotic, snack food-like entertainment regardless, but played with a group that knows what they are doing Ultimate Alliance 3 can become a delightful coordination challenge. There’s lots of calling out targets, working together to Stagger specific enemies while you have a synergy attack waiting in the wings. The only real enemy of this experience is a fairly predictable one: the camera, which frequently felt too restrictive and zoomed in when your co-op party moves in opposite directions, and was frustratingly stubborn in a handful of tight hallways.While co-op seems to be the intended way to play (as seen particularly in its boss fights that often ask you to multitask), I actually really loved playing alone as well - I might have even liked it more at times. There’s an alternate camera option this way called Heroic that drops the viewing angle down for more of a third-person action feel, and I absolutely preferred it to the default zoomed-out perspective. Ultimate Alliance also has pretty decent AI partners, swapping between heroes on your team is fast and seamless, and using synergy abilities is made super simple, all of which meant controlling four heroes at once kept battles fresh far longer than just sticking with just one character for a long period of time.Supporting your heroes’ literal journey are a plethora of stats to upgrade and a borderline excessive number of currencies to spend. You can use different pools of points you earn to rank up individual abilities, improve the stats of every member of your alliance via a sprawling skill tree, and equip special ISO-8 crystals for even more stat boosts - which can themselves be upgraded to improve their bonuses. With six different stats that govern attack, defense, health, and Energy there is a ton to dig into here, and min-maxers will have a field day doing just that with great success - but that doesn’t mean any one upgrade is very exciting because of how incremental the vast majority are.Essentially every form of upgrade or modification in Ultimate Alliance 3 is stat-based, which means that they are almost entirely invisible to you while you are actually fighting. For instance, you could buy a skill that gives your heroes 40 more Strength (even though most heroes’ Strength values are in the thousands), get a team bonus for using two of the Defenders at once for plus 2% Durability, or upgrade a basic ISO-8 crystal to give a hero 5% more Vitality instead of… 4%. Their combined effect will be practically unnoticeable. Hooray!The ability rank-ups are also unimaginative. Every single ability - whether it’s shooting webs at enemies as Spider-Man, zapping them with lighting as Thor, or dropping giant fidget spinners on their heads as The Wasp - gets a reduced Energy cost at rank 2, increased damage at rank 3, and usually increased stagger damage at rank 4, though sometimes that last one will be a bit more tailored to the ability itself. No matter how detailed or extensive all of these upgrade systems are, these purely number-based buffs are just boring since they don’t change the way any of your heroes play.Hidden in that sea of marginal stat boosts are some actually interesting upgrades, but they are few and far between. By far the coolest one I unlocked was a skill that healed my heroes for 3% of the damage they dealt during Extreme attacks - a significant amount considering they can do hundreds of thousands of points of damage. That was an actual, tangible improvement I could see in the field, and it did actually change my thinking in fun ways as I started using Extreme attacks to save heroes on the cusp of death instead of just take down big baddies.But by the end of the roughly 13 hours it took me to complete Ultimate Alliance 3’s story I had unlocked only about a fifth of its gargantuan skill tree. Beating the campaign unlocks an even harder mode, called Superior, to replay on, and beyond that are the high-level Infinity Trials to test your mettle against for bonus unlocks.The Trials usually have you replay bosses or sections from the campaign with a twist to the rules - sometimes you have reduced damage on anything but abilities or synergy attacks, or maybe there’s a timer running that only refills when you defeat enemies. A fair number of these are a higher level than your heroes will likely be by the end of one run through the campaign, encouraging you to play again or level up further through easier Trials to get their rewards.As far as I’ve seen, Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3 doesn’t have any form of microtransactions at launch. However, it does already have an Expansion Pass on sale for $20. That pass comes with a Deadpool costume that’s available at launch, as well as three upcoming DLC packs that (allegedly) won’t be sold separately. The first will arrive in Fall 2019, the second some later time in 2019, and the third in 2020; according to the official description they will include new “playable characters, modes, and additional story” from the Fantastic Four, X-Men, and Marvel Knights. Additional free DLC characters like Cyclops and Colossus are also planned.The first DLC pack will focus on Marvel Knights and add Blade, Moon Knight, Punisher, and Morbius as playable characters. While we don’t really know any other specifics, Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3’s structure is set up in the form of chapters that each revolve around a specific hero group or area, with characters tied to that setting unlocking as you progress. Adding something like a new Fantastic Four-themed chapter where you unlock that team (potentially alongside some more Trials) could be a nice way to refresh what I liked so much about the base campaign. It has promise, but we’ll of course have to see what those DLC packs actually entail before we can determine if they are worth it.Those rewards are usually Ability Orbs used to rank up moves, XP Cubes to level up characters, or alternate outfits - though the outfits are a massive missed opportunity as they are slow to unlock and have so far been limited to a single, uninspired recolor for each hero’s default costume, like taking the red stripes of of Captain America’s suit. You can even unlock a few extra playable characters here like Elektra, which I imagine is to keep things fresh in the post-game – you won’t unlock new ones anymore just by playing through the campaign again, even on Superior difficulty.The massive skill tree and extensive amount of number-crunching upgrades available feel like they were designed for all these post-game tasks. There is fun to be had in trying to craft that perfect team build as you take on the hardest content Ultimate Alliance 3 has to offer - I enjoyed doing a bit of that myself for some of the tougher bosses and trickier Trials - it’s just hard to see the results of that work, especially on your first playthrough. Instead, the spice is found in the variety between heroes, not how those heroes change… because they don’t, they just get bigger numbers. And while I’m certainly still interested in diving back into some of those harder challenges, I don’t exactly know how long “harder” alone will keep me hooked.
Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/06/21/crash-team-racing-nitro-fueled-review|Twenty years ago, Naughty Dog’s Crash Team Racing made a name for itself as “the other good kart racer.” And to this day its dynamic courses, flavorful lore, challenging-yet-clear power-sliding mechanic, and lack of catch-up items make it a game that deserves better than living in Mario Kart’s shadow. Despite a few seriously frustrating single-player races, Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled is a thrilling ride that keeps the excellent original game intact while adding some quality of life updates, such as an improved HUD, and obligatory modern trappings such as unlockable cosmetics.Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled instantly transports me back to 1999 and the early 2000s with its familiar tracks, cartoonishly bright colors, and ridiculous plot of stopping Nitros Oxide from turning Earth into a parking lot. But this remaster is far from stuck in the past: visually, it looks stunning with vivid details around every corner and animations that give each character plenty of personality. The ability to swap between characters during Adventure mode and the cosmetic options are welcome additions, and learning to master each of these 31 tracks proved to be a real challenge because of their frequent tight turns, competent (though sometimes cheap) competition from the AI.CTR Nitro-Fueled has an Adventure mode, local and online play, five battle modes, and three challenge modes building on the foundation of the original, but what matters most is how it feels to get behind the wheel. In that regard, Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled is a success. The wickedly fast speed, which is significantly faster than Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, can be jarring at first but it was a welcome joyride once I got a feel for the course. The karts are fast in nature but the power-slide mechanic takes that speed to another level.The amount of feedback the turbo meter gives you makes power sliding easy to understand and yet still hard to master. You know exactly when and why you fail. And when you succeed, you can feel proud as you slide to victory.There are 31 race single tracks in Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled cutting across both Crash Team Racing and Vicarious Visions’ 2003 sequel, Crash Nitro Kart. Given that, it’s a disappointment that the Adventure mode only sends us through just 17, (minus a few optional challenges), all of which come from the original CTR.I adored just about every single one of them, from sewers that encourage major power sliding to tunnels completely lined with turbo boosts. And although they have predictable patterns, environmental obstacles prove to be an actual challenge. Do you go for the boost even when the next barrel drop makes it a close call? Can you deal with dodging beakers without getting eaten by the plant waiting on the sidelines? The tracks were designed to make the power slide shine and the result is something fast, playful, and memorable.It’s not a kart racer without items, and all 11 CTR favorites are back (two of which are exclusive to the Battle modes). Most of these items function in predictable ways given the genre: one provides invincibility and increased speed, turbos give a boost, beakers function as traps on the track, and so on. But I’ve always loved how much the Crash racing series draws from the story and world of mainline Crash Bandicoot platformer games. The Aku Aku mask generally provides invincibility, but when Dr. Neo Cotex picks it up it’s the Uka Uka Mask instead. TnT Crates crates take a few seconds to explode once touched, just like in the platformer. But once you drive into it the crate is placed on your head, allowing you to jump over and over again with the hope of getting it off of you before it explodes. Likewise, wumpa fruits may seem like “basically coins in Mario Kart" but, in addition to increasing top speed, once you’ve collected 10 you’ll earn “Juiced Up!” power-ups. For example, TnT crates become nitro crates that explode as soon as you touch them and green beakers become red ones that don’t just spin you out. Instead, these souped-up beakers also add a rain cloud above your opponent's head to slow them down for several seconds after they recover.Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled’s mandatory fast-pace and lack of catch-up items make it the most exhilarating kart racer I’ve played, but this isn’t the kart racer you want on the TV during Thanksgiving or a friendly get together.The casual nature of kart racers and the skill it takes to master CTR feel at odds at times. While I find the rigor unique and refreshing, it makes it hard to pass the controller to those who are less seasoned. Mario Kart takes skill too, but items like Bullet Bill make it easy to get a decent finish even if you drove poorly.Even with all my experience, getting on the podium was no easy feat. The point system during Cups mode is particularly old school and unforgiving, with 0 points awarded to anyone who finishes 5th place or lower.While some may stick exclusively to local or online play, CTR Nitro-Fueled has a fully built-out single-player campaign across five hub worlds which can be played in Nitro-Fueled or Classic mode.Nitro-Fueled mode lets you switch characters and karts as you please. Being able to swap characters at will, unlike the original game, can come in handy if you’re ever having a hard time earning that coveted first place trophy because stats vary across the roster.I spent most of CTR driving with one of my favorite characters, Coco, who I remember fondly as one of the first women characters I ever played as. But Dr. Cortex’s balanced stats helped me finally nab first in Hot Air Skyway. And the beginner class driver, Polar, was great for precision challenges at the end of the campaign. He’s also just adorable.Those who are craving that old-school feel can play in Classic mode with one character from beginning to end and just a basic kart. Even the cast will be identical to the original and difficulty options will be non-existent. Personally, I prefer the modern version because character-swap options are convenient and cosmetics are fun to mess around with. But the classic mode is a nice way for the remaster to stay faithful to the original while making improvements modern players can opt into.Aside from some of the earlier tracks and cups, getting first in CTR is challenging. You have to power slide like no tomorrow while dealing with the randomness of your opponents' arsenals. But getting first in every single track in order to unlock the boss and then beating the boss to progress to the next area can be grueling.By the end of the campaign, you’ll probably be great at CTR but you may also hate CTR. Besides some difficult tracks, all the bosses are rubber-banded, which means it’s essentially impossible to be ahead of them for all three laps. No matter how much distance you put between you they will eventually come back. Your goal is really to be ahead towards the end of the track, when it actually counts.At first, this was just a little annoying with some especially painful and cheap losses. But towards the end of the campaign it became laughable, to the point where one of the final bosses was tossing bowling bombs nonstop on a track without bumpers and with several blind spots. A good boss should challenge you to put all your knowledge and skill to the test but this design is just a part of the 90s we need to leave in the trash where it belongs.Twelve Battle-specific courses are available, all of which pull from settings of the main tracks. Battle mode also introduces the Super Engine and Invisibility items, both of which feel pointless in this more combat-focused challenge. The Super Engine just sends you flying around the course and Invisibility would be good if your wheels weren’t 100% visible to everybody the entire time. Being less visible isn’t invisible.The catch is that all of these modes are point-based and involve hitting opponents with weapons, taking a flag back to your base, or collecting crystals while avoiding and attacking enemies. So despite having five modes there isn’t actually much variety in the gameplay. Battle is serviceable but not anything to write home about. I might boot it up just to do something other than race but that’s it.Time trials are straightforward and ultimately uninspired: get the fastest time you can and race against ghost versions of yourself as you try to beat the CPU high score. The Crystal Challenge is equally mundane: grab all the crystals (in the circular arenas exclusive to Battle modes) before time runs out. It’s a challenge, sure, but not an especially interesting one.On the other hand the Relic Race and CTR challenge are two of the best modes in CTR Nitro-Fueled. Relic Races involve beating the track under a set amount of time – just like the Time Trial, here you’re racing alone but with an added twist in which numbered crates pause the timer for 1, 2, or 3 seconds, respectively. This adds a new layer of excitement and strategy to otherwise familiar tracks.The CTR Challenge mode requires you to collect the letters C, T, and R while also finishing in first place to beat the track. The combination of having to locate the letters, successfully grab them, and also manage to have a clean race adds a fun dimension to racing. And unlike other challenge modes, this one is populated with CPU players so it feels a lot closer to the main game.Customization is available for both karts and characters, but these items don’t have any effect on racing so the playing field will stay even. Some of these are unlocked during adventure mode though the constant screen pop-ups saying “you got a new paint job!” interrupt the flow between the races and the hub world the tracks exist in. Other cosmetics can be purchased with in-game currency called Wumpa Coins in The Pit Stop, earned from racing. The character skins are pretty sleek but the paint jobs and most of the wheels leave plenty to be desired.When you take into account the characters, character skins, kart bodies, wheels, paint jobs, and stickers only about a third of these cosmetics can be unlocked by simply finishing the Adventure mode. Some require completing extra challenges and the rest need to be purchased with in-game currency.This in-game store features Daily Deals for skins, paint jobs, and stickers which are labeled as basic, exotic, or legendary. This feels awkwardly out of place, because while cosmetics are a welcome addition the rotating storefront feels like it’s trying too hard to make this an ongoing game in a genre that’s normally contained to the couch or a few online matches. The storefront and CTR’s load screens in general look like something from 2008. They stand out, in a bad way, against the otherwise beautiful art direction.Overall, there are some great cosmetics in CTR Nitro-Fueled but some of the cutest and coolest items, such as Polar’s fisherman’s suit and Robo-Cortex, are stuck in The Pit Stop. Moreover, some of the cosmetics aren’t worth their challenges. For instance, achieving 100% progression in the Adventure mode gets you the Hovercraft’s green paint job. That’s it! But for 101% progression, you get a Nitros Oxide skin so at least that's something.
My Friend Pedro Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/06/20/my-friend-pedro-review|The crazy 2D-shooter action of My Friend Pedro is about one thing and one thing only: the word “cool.” It almost feels like it was developed with the single-minded purpose of distilling the pure essence of the word, then somehow translating that into a video game. And in that singular pursuit, My Friend Pedro is a resounding success.My Friend Pedro is an arcadey score-attack game that’s all about maintaining a multiplier by killing enemies quickly, avoiding getting shot, and finding creative ways to take down each bad guy to maximize your score. It’s an age-old concept (especially not getting shot), but where My Friend Pedro sets itself apart is in its sheer commitment to making you feel badass as hell while doing it.Bullet time is the core that My Friend Pedro is built on, and while the mechanic itself is obviously nothing new, its implementation here is one of the best it’s ever been. It serves not only as a vital means of slowing down the action, but also as a way to enhance the absolutely wild stunts that your character can perform. Few things in video games can come close to matching how cool it feels when you swing from a rope, crash through a window in slow motion, blast two enemies to smithereens with a shotgun while in mid-air, and then stick the landing on a skateboard. The few things that do come close are probably also things that you can do in this game.My Friend Pedro is made up of a ton of awesome moments like these, and throughout its short but sweet four or five-hour run time developer DeadToast does a great job of introducing new mechanics that prevent the action from ever becoming stale. Whether it be the aforementioned skateboard, a weapon that opens up excitingly deadly possibilities, new stage hazards, enemies, or its own twist on a motorcycle stage. My Friend Pedro has some sort of new idea for just about every level.That being said, the first half is certainly the stronger of the two. The stunts flow together much more cleanly with very little downtime between enemy encounters; enemies are less bullet spongey, allowing you to focus more on the spectacle of the action as opposed to just surviving it; and overall, the levels are just structured in a way that allows you to have more fun with the environment. My favorite level in the whole campaign is an early one with a section that has you shooting your way through a kitchen, with knives flying everywhere that can be kicked into enemies, a frying pan hanging from the wall that can be used to ricochet bullets – and then, in the room right after that, there’s another area where you can throw a frying pan into the air to take out all the enemies above then kick the pan through a window in the next area and take out the baddies without even stepping through the door. The later sewer and internet levels just don’t come close to matching that degree of flow from one area to the next. That’s not to say that the back half is bad, and there are certainly high points. One such highlight is a train level that has you jumping from car to car, leaving a trail of blood and body parts in your wake. But the most creative and exciting levels are definitely frontloaded.Beyond the bullet time and the stunts, My Friend Pedro simply feels great to play. The animations do sometimes look a little wonky, especially during wall jumps, melee attacks, and when your character has to unexpectedly land on an object. But it’s a small price to pay for how dynamically your character flips through the air, seamlessly moving from a dive to a rope swing and back to a dive, all while conveying a real sense of weight and momentum.While the arsenal of weapons is fairly limited and conventional, there’s a great balance between each gun that helps ensure that no weapon ever becomes obsolete. Shotguns, for example, are obviously great up close and can blow enemies to pieces (and you can use those pieces as weapons to kick at other enemies), but they lack the range and flexibility of the dual uzis and pistols which can split their aim to attack multiple targets at once.Story is obviously not a focus of My Friend Pedro, which is great because it’s pretty awful at telling one. You play as a nameless and voiceless protagonist who wakes up in the basement of a butcher shop where you’re greeted by your friend, Pedro: a talking banana who tells you to do bad things. The few jokes that attempt to bring life to an otherwise-dead script fall completely flat, like one about a place called The Internet literally being a series of tubes, or how hardcore gamers all moved to the sewers because... there are always sewer levels in violent games, and… they wanted to move someplace familiar.Fortunately, the story doesn’t get in the way of the action. The few cutscenes that do exist are short and painless, and any added dialogue takes place while you’re able to play, making it unobtrusive. It is also a short adventure, but the length wouldn’t be as much of an issue if there were any sort of incentive to replay on its harder difficulties, such as striving to get those S ranks. There are leaderboards, and sure, bragging rights are great, but it would have been nice to have a few more tangible rewards like unlockable costumes, weapons, or anything to keep me chasing those high scores.
Cadence of Hyrule Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/06/18/cadence-of-hyrule-review|It’s easy to look at Cadence of Hyrule: Crypt of the Necrodancer Featuring the Legend of Zelda and see a simple reskin of an indie darling with the look of one of gaming’s biggest names. But there’s so much more to it than that. Cadence of Hyrule cleverly blends rhythm and roguelike elements from Crypt of the Necrodancer with the canonized world and structure of classic Zelda games like A Link to the Past and, in doing so, brings fresh new ideas to both series.Each enemy moves and fights according to a unique pattern which you have to memorize so you can “dance” to intercept them without getting hit, turning every enemy and combination of enemies into a fresh, fast-paced puzzle. The concept is as magical as it was in Crypt of the Necrodancer. Though you are constantly thinking through and solving new problems, combat never really feels like a conundrum: you’re acting and reacting as you would in any action game, but setting those reactions to music. The whole process feels a lot more purposeful and, thus, rewarding than the average hack-and-slash experience.Though Cadence of Hyrule’s map looks and feels like a Zelda world, there is a Necrodancer element: it’s not entirely set in stone. At the start of each new game the world tiles are swapped around to create a new layout. It isn’t wholesale randomization, though. Based on one full playthrough and two other partial playthroughs, the individual areas — shown as tiles on the world map that generally represent a single screen’s worth of Hyrule — do not change, except to add or remove walls when necessary, and stay grouped by environment. Generally, I didn’t really notice that the world was formed and reformed this way, which is the best thing you can say about procedurally generated maps, when you think about it. Plus, this opens the door for more variation on subsequent playthroughs.That combat/puzzle-solving process becomes a little more complex in Cadence of Hyrule than it ever did in Necrodancer. In true Zelda fashion, you find a variety of key items throughout your quest, including Zelda staples like the boomerang, bombs, bow, and… Deku Leaf. Instead of single sword upgrade path, you can find the full range of weapons from Necrodancer, each of which changes the range of your attacks, including a spear that hits two tiles directly in front of you and a flail that lets you move forward when you make a killing blow.Which brings me to Cadence’ one relatively big annoyance: the distinction between combat mode and exploration mode is a hard binary – you’re either in combat because there are enemies present in the “room” you’re in or not – but there were times when I wished it had been more fluid. For example, there are a few areas in the world — namely the areas around a dungeon, which don’t appear to change from game-to-game — which are larger than a single screen. In these areas, you can be completely safe with no enemies in sight, but still be constrained to moving in combat mode because there may be a few monsters on the other side of a lake a few screens over. (Technically, you can turn off the rhythm-based movement entirely, but it’s not meant to be turned on and off at will — and using it at any time lumps you in a different, no-rhythm leaderboard).
Cricket 19 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/05/29/cricket-19-review|After a well-intentioned yet ultimately disappointing detour into the NBA Jam-inspired, super-powered swashbuckling of 2018’s Big Bash Boom, Big Ant Studios has made a confident return to the more traditional cricket game crease with Cricket 19. Using the core engine and feature set of 2017’s Ashes Cricket as a base, Cricket 19 breathes life into its presentation, smartens up its AI, and bolts on a compelling new scenario mode, making it look and feel more authentic than a broken-in Baggy Green — complete with a few frayed edges.
Assassin's Creed III Remastered for Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/05/24/assassins-creed-iii-remastered-for-switch-review|The Nintendo Switch version of Assassin's Creed III Remastered is the version I most wanted to play after hearing the initial announcement. The idea of taking a last-gen console Assassin's Creed game and putting it on Switch sounded totally within the realm of possibility. And having played through the PC and console versions of Assassin’s Creed III Remastered for review, I was excited to have that same experience. Unfortunately, it turns out to be an ugly mess that barely looks better than it did on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, and yet somehow runs worse.The rest of the improvements over the original version are here, like better menus and map icons. I liked playing Assassin's Creed III Remastered when I reviewed it for PC and PS4, but even with the improvements carried over, the technical issues make the Switch the least of all the versions. I wouldn’t quite go so far as to say that you'd be better off revisiting it in last-gen, but it's a really close call.
Mortal Kombat 11 Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/04/25/mortal-kombat-11-switch-review|Beyond pure looks, the character-specific tutorials are missing (there’s a placeholder that says “Coming Soon”), moves that can do a Krushing Blow have their requirements left out of the movelist for some reason, and the competitive variations for each character in both Tournament mode and Ranked are missing, with the variations in tournament simply replaced by a generic variation that just says “Default.”Of all the main modes in Mortal Kombat 11, it’s the Story mode that translates over to the Switch the best, but even then, it’s not quite as nice. The transition from cutscene quality to gameplay is jarring because of the sudden switch in character model and texture quality, and then the transition back from gameplay to cutscene is almost always followed by substantial hitching in the video framerate for a few moments.When you’re connected, online play through the Nintendo Online service is mostly great, though it’s notably less smooth than on the other platforms. The majority of matches I’ve played worked well, even on wifi, though a few dropped in framerate substantially, which was something that I had not experienced in the other versions.
SteamWorld Quest Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/04/23/steamworld-quest-review|Despite being full of cards, SteamWorld Quest doesn’t feel like a card game. As the first RPG in the SteamWorld series (the excellent SteamWorld Dig 2 being the previous entry), it bears far more resemblance to a game like Final Fantasy than Hearthstone or Gwent. Instead of letting its deck-building mechanics take over entirely, they instead give SteamWorld Quest one of the most flexible and fun turn-based RPG combat systems I’ve played with in a long time.Steam World Quest tells the charming tale of a group of ragtag fantasy robots out to save the world from an evil army, rising to the threat before them despite their inexperience. It’s not exactly a unique premise (except for the robot part, I suppose), but the twists and turns it takes along the way make it stand out in interesting ways, and the big bad behind it all is a compelling one to fight. The story digs into larger themes about heroism and growing up with some nicely written dialogue that’s never long enough to drag the action down, and can even be genuinely funny or touching at times.You assemble a traditional RPG party of three fighters, but instead of giving you the routine choice of regular attacks and spells to use each turn, you’re limited to only the six Strike, Upgrade, or Skill cards in your hand. Those are drawn from a 24-card deck made up of three individual eight-card decks that you build for each of your active fighters, making it a mix of moves that could change dramatically depending on who you are using in any given fight. That unpredictability keeps you from falling into any sort of repetitive rut and constantly forces you to improvise.Each of Quest’s characters has their own varied and specialized pool of cards to pick from, as well as an appealing personality that I enjoyed watching grow over the course of its roughly 15 to 20-hour campaign. While they generally stick to recognizable RPG archetypes – the small but passionate Copernica acts as the mage, while the large but lovable shut-in Galleo is more of a tank – each one has a multitude of different strategies available to them. You could outfit Copernica with nothing but damage-dealing spells, or skew her more toward a support role with buffs and shields. Similarly, while Galleo has plenty of cards to taunt enemies and soak up damage, he can also be used as a healer or even a damage dealer in his own right with the proper setups. I loved that none of those inherent styles felt wrong, and I frequently switched them up or mixed them depending on the roles I picked for other people in my party.Every character’s card pool grows and upgrades significantly as you progress and Quest really starts to shine as your options expand. But even as more strategies open up, you are still only ever picking any eight cards you want each character to equip at a time, and that simplicity keeps deck building from ever feeling overwhelming. It’s all the choice and variety I love from card games like Slay the Spire in a bite-sized form – granted, I missed many of Slay the Spire’s quality-of-life touches, like automatically updating a card’s displayed damage based on an enemy’s weaknesses or being able to look through your remaining deck, but it works well enough.In combat, you always draw up to a hand of six cards and get to play three per turn before the enemy gets to attack, keeping things straightforward on the surface with lots of room for strategy underneath. While basic cards can be played for free, they generate Steam Pressure (SP) that powerful cards then need to spend to be played. That means you have to build up and use your SP carefully, taking potentially weaker turns to prep for future (harder) hits. Building your deck with the right balance of cards that consume and generate SP is also vital, and a fun puzzle to solve.On top of SP is a clever combo system that went a long way toward constantly keeping battles fresh. Playing three cards from the same character in a single turn activates a special fourth card for them that's determined by their equipped weapon – for example, Copernica’s ability to shield her entire team was a staple of my current run – while some other cards get bonus effects if they are played after one from a specific teammate. I loved how much that made me think about every choice I made, whether I wanted to go all-in on one character or use multiple people for a wider variety of effects.It also made weaving together the strategies of my different decks feel important and engaging. If the party’s plucky leader, Armilly, was in my line-up with Copernica, I might use her cards that weaken an enemy’s fire resistance alongside Copernica’s fire attacks. But if I swapped Armilly out, I’d usually revisit Copernica’s deck and replace her fire cards with ones that dealt lighting or ice damage. These intertwined combos are all over the place, and constantly switching my party up to find new strategies never got old – especially as I got more characters and loads more cards.New cards aren’t awarded on level-ups, instead unlocking through hidden treasure chests, cute story events (if a character has a formative moment, they might get a card to represent that growth) or through crafting in the shop. SteamWorld Quest’s economy can be seriously pricey, though, and I never felt like I had enough money or crafting materials to get everything I wanted, sometimes to my frustration. You get so many cards already that I was never hurting for choice, but it could often be discouraging to have to pick just one or two options out of a dozen or more each time I went shopping.Granted, and crucially, you don’t need to get everything. Nothing about the campaign felt unbalanced, and I never once had to grind to stay up to snuff with enemies. It was just a little bit of a bummer to see so many different and cool options in the shop that I wasn’t able to invest in. Again, I was never left wanting when it came to discovering new strategies, but I also had to leave a few intriguing ones on the table that were just too hard to pivot to in the mid-to-late game.That immense card variety is seriously important, too, because while the combat was always fun and changing decks could often result in entirely new and unexpected playstyles, the enemies don’t stay quite as interesting. Bosses are unique and exciting, but there just aren’t that many types of the basic grunts. They come in different flavors throughout, and there’s definitely enough that it doesn’t feel jarring or anything, but it was a shame to occasionally see stuff like recolored versions of enemies I fought in the first couple levels show up later on with higher stats and only slightly altered attacks.SteamWorld Quest’s levels are split into chapters rather than having a more traditional open RPG map to explore, which somewhat annoyingly forces you to mash B to skip through all the cutscenes when you replay them looking for any secrets you missed. They are mostly just a series of simple corridors to fight enemies and look for hidden chests in, with some light puzzles to break up the pacing. They range from a cheery, green village to a pompous magic academy to a dangerous, snowy fortress and beyond, and the varied art and music behind them are so lovely that it kept things fresh all the way through the 17 hours it took me to finish its story.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate: Joker Challenger Pack DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/04/18/super-smash-bros-ultimate-joker-challenger-pack-dlc-review|If there’s one thing that’s become readily apparent with DLC guest fighters appearing in the Super Smash Bros. series, it’s the unreal amount of care and detail put into making them feel right at home in Nintendo’s fighting game. Persona 5’s Joker is no exception.The first of the five planned Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Challenger Packs, which are available for $6 individually or $25 for all five, Joker may seem like an odd duck at first, given that his native JRPG isn’t even available on the Nintendo Switch (for now?). But between the flashy fighting thief and his bombastic stage, the choice is a surprisingly fitting one. And even if you aren’t familiar with Persona 5, its signature slick design is present and eye-catching in almost every aspect of the Joker content.As a fighter, Joker’s moves translate extremely well into the realm of Smash Bros., between the sharp red accents flying alongside his knife’s slash and his cinematic final smash that might be one of the most entertaining finishers yet – and winning the match with the All-Out Attack is just icing on the cake. Even his victory screens take perfect cues from his source material, and yet never feels out of place.Joker’s fighting style isn’t the most technical or complex to get into, and there’s just the right amount of individuality to his moves that make him an interesting fighter to pick up and learn. He’s fast, but not the fastest, and his pistol shots and side special can be used in inventive ways to reach where his short-range dagger can’t. I really enjoyed Joker’s added movement abilities when using his firearm to give him some interesting options compared to other fighters – like being able to seamlessly dodge back or jump over an opponent while laying down fire to hamper incoming attacks. The pistol itself doesn’t have too much power or speed to it, but the trade-off for its mobility softens that blow.The big trick up Joker’s sleeve is the ability for him to raise his “Rebellious Nature” meter, which happens more rapidly when taking damage or using a special blocking move. Filling this meter will summon his Persona, Arsene, as a phantom ally that increases his damage output and puts some fun twists on his special moves. For instance, his Grappling Hook recovery move is fairly limited in use and scope – but with his Persona powering him up, Joker is able to fly upwards at a much higher rate while also evading incoming attacks, which can put a wrench in an opponent’s plan to guard the stage’s edge.That said, I’m not quite sold on Joker’s Rebellious Nature meter slowly raising even when just standing around. Sure, it does take three whole minutes for a full charge if you aren’t doing anything else, but being able to play keep-away from opponents as the last of your meter fills feels at odds with the “nothing ventured, nothing gained” mechanic of soaking up incoming damage in order to raise it more quickly. Having to put yourself in harm’s way felt like a proper check and balance on how much more powerful Joker is with his Persona.Joker’s Challenger Pack also comes with his own stage, Mementos, which has to be one of the most eye-popping arenas in Smash Bros. history. The stage is chock-full of tiny details to appreciate and references to its source material, from the subtle purple sparks that fly along your feet to the cameos from Joker’s friends and the subway cars that roar by and threaten to slam into opponents falling below the stage. Persona 5’s acid jazz-inspired tunes might not perfectly sync with the more hectic matchups of a Smash Bros. fight, but there’s something groovy about a 1v1 match-up set to Persona 5’s “Rivers in the Desert.” Having the stage change from its stark red to cool blue or yellow as a reference to Persona 3 and 4 when one of their songs is playing from the 11 new music tracks is another really fun touch.I was also really happy to see a special DLC Spirit Board included that allows you to fight 11 Persona-themed Spirit Battles that have a great range of difficulty and can all be replayed. It’s easy to tell just as much thought went into making Joker as structuring rules for these battles, like having each of the spirit characters aided by a huge ally acting as their Persona. And of course Futaba’s Spirit Battle would be represented by an Inkling who looks just like her.
Katana Zero Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/04/18/katana-zero-review|Taking more than a few cues from Hotline Miami, Katana Zero is a blisteringly fast slash-em-up with action that’s an absolute adrenaline rush. Which is appropriate because it’s largely about a neo-noir-inspired samurai who sticks a bunch of needles in his body.It wears its inspirations on the sleeves of its kimono, but Katana Zero refines the tried and true one-hit-kill formula in a manner that makes it feels fresh, exciting, and innovative in surprising ways.Katana Zero puts you in control of a nameless samurai assassin with the power to manipulate time and see into the future. In an extremely clever and fun framing of the action, every level is contextualized as being the planning of an assassination. So, instead of your character dying, you’re told “No… That won’t work,” as your precognition rewinds to the start (complete with old-timey VCR effect), giving you a chance to find a solution that doesn’t end in your death. Every level even ends with a security camera recording of what “actually” happened, which serves not only as a way to see your moment of triumph played back, but also to subvert expectations in interesting ways later on.Working up to that moment is a blast because Katana Zero’s action is fast-paced and empoweringly flexible. Like Hotline Miami, it’s one shot, one kill for both you and any enemy that isn’t a boss. Your character can slash in eight directions, slow down time, use a dodge roll to avoid bullets, or reflect bullets back with his sword. There’s a great flow and feel to your character’s movement thanks to small touches like how each sword swing gives you a slight boost of momentum, or how you can cancel out of any roll, and the way each kill gives a satisfying screen-shake and pause to the action (both of which can be adjusted or disabled in the options).My favorite thing about the action of Katana Zero though is the slow-mo effect – specifically, how optional it is. It never feels too strong; it’s on a pretty strict cooldown, and since enemies will hear whenever gunfire rings out, you’ll rarely have time to stay safe long enough for it to replenish. This puts it in a perfect spot as a powerful ability to get you through a tough situation while still being limited enough to keep the action quick.As I got better, I found myself trying to wean myself off using slow-mo as much as I could, because storming into a room full of enemies, deflecting bullets, dodging shotgun blasts, and cutting up baddies all at full speed feels incredible. I also liked keeping slow-mo in my pocket as long as possible as a get-out-of-jail-free card.Katana Zero’s story doesn’t quite hit the high note that its action does, but it’s at least carried by strong writing and a few great characters, such as your boss/therapist that guides you through your traumatic past while also providing you with the dossiers of people he wants dead, or a psychotic Russian named V. There’s also an innovative dialogue system that gives you unique options depending on when in the conversation you decide to interject and skip through NPC’s lines. For example, if you just want to get a move on past the receptionist at the front desk of a hotel full of dudes that need a killin’, you can rudely shut down her every attempt to talk to you, resulting in her getting super pissed. Or, if you wait ‘til she finishes every sentence you will be rewarded with new dialogue options, such as one that allows you to tell her the fun lie of saying you’re cosplaying as a character from an anime. Either way, the resulting dialogue is entertaining and well worth multiple playthroughs to see how the scenarios play out.That being said, any deviations in the story due to my choices felt largely superficial, so there were times when later dialogue options felt wildly inconsistent with my previous decisions. The biggest issue, though, is the fact that very little is resolved by the time the credits roll. It feels like it’s planned to be the first part in a series of games, and I’m interested to see where a potential sequel or DLC might go from here, but it’s hard not to feel like the story of this first chapter was all buildup and no payoff.Katana Zero won’t take more than four to six hours to complete, but it’s a very tight four to six hours that cuts out any fluff. It never feels like it’s running out of ideas, and every level does a great job of introducing small twists to its simple formula, from a minecart level to a motorcycle chase sequence to one particularly standout level that’s a bit too spoilery to talk about here.It also helps that everything looks and sounds great. The slick neon aesthetic and fantastic sprite work go hand in hand with some legitimately impressive 2D lighting effects that give Katana Zero a unique visual style and personality. There’s also a fitting and fantastic retro-electro soundtrack to go along with the action.
Nintendo Labo VR Kit Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/04/16/nintendo-labo-vr-kit-review|It’s easy to scoff at the Labo VR Kit’s simple cardboard headset and collection of ridiculous add-ons as little more than Google’s Cardboard with Nintendo branding, but this kit is a surprisingly solid and in-depth introduction to the world of VR. While the display resolution and framerate fall far below the average dedicated VR headset and many of the associated games are extremely simple novelties, there are enough weird and whimsical games and tools included to provide a unique and (mostly) enjoyable experience when used in short bursts. The Virtual Boy 2, this isn’t.The full $80 Labo VR Kit comes with six main “Toy-Con” projects: a Camera, a Bird, a Wind Pedal, an Elephant, a Blaster, and the VR Headset itself. (Alternatively, you can purchase a $40 Starter Set that includes only the Headset and the Blaster and purchase the rest as add-ons.) The included software gives each project an estimated completion time, which can range from a simple 30 minutes to a staggering three hours for the Blaster. If you’re planning on building every project (and you really should), you’re looking at six to 11 hours of creasing cardboard tabs, stretching rubber bands, and applying stickers. Fortunately, when you’re done, you’re done. Labo creations aren’t made to come apart, which is wonderful for weary builders but unfortunate for those who lack the storage space for an oversized camera or a strange boxy bird.And yet, even with issues of clarity and comfort, Labo VR still manages to provide a decent VR experience. The image may not be as crisp as the you’d see on an Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, or even a PlayStation VR, but Nintendo’s colorful worlds and virtual interactions are immersive nonetheless.
Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Trilogy Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/04/09/phoenix-wright-ace-attorney-trilogy-review|While it’s since been followed by a string of sequels, crossovers, and spin-offs, the original Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Trilogy remains the most mechanically straightforward and narratively cohesive collection of games in the visual novel series to date. This compilation represents the first time that PlayStation and Xbox owners will be able to get a taste of the Ace Attorney series’ wonderfully absurd brand of pun-filled courtroom drama, but an absence of any new supplemental content or gameplay tweaks means it doesn’t make a compelling case for returning fans.It’s also disappointing that this release of the original Ace Attorney Trilogy hasn’t been retrofitted with the text log that featured in later instalments. There is an enormous amount of dialogue to page through in these games, and unless you have the concentration of a surgeon it can be easy to miss details along the way that you have no way of referring back to unless they’re included in the court record as direct evidence, which can result in you targeting pieces of testimony with less of a silver bullet and more of a shot in the dark.
Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/03/28/power-rangers-battle-for-the-grid-review|Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid is a great example of how far rock-solid mechanics and strong characters can take a fighting game, even when everything else is working against it. This nostalgia-fest has the look of a free-to-play mobile game, a complete lack of voice acting, a barebones set of modes and features, only nine characters, only five stages, repetitive and generic music, all on top of the stigma of being based off a licensed property not known for having a great video game track record. But against all odds, underneath all of that beats the heart of a fighting system developed with thought, care, and an obvious love for 2D tag fighting games.Battle for the Grid is a 3-on-3 tag fighter with a four-button combat system consisting of light, medium, heavy, and special attacks, much like Dragon Ball FighterZ. Also, like FighterZ, there are no complicated button inputs for special moves, with every move being performable by pressing a direction and a button. The result is a fighting system that all but removes the executional barrier of entry and focuses instead on fundamentals, which is great because the simplicity of the combat system is complemented by much more complex tag mechanics and a wild array of special moves that will have skilled players mixing opponents up like batter.Battle for the Grid borrows its wonderful tag mechanics primarily from BlazBlue Cross Tag battle, and it works just as well here. You can call in an assist to have them do an attack, but then you also have the option to take control of the assist and tag your other character out, allowing you to convert combos off throws and continue combos with assists in fun and interesting ways.While there are only nine characters in Battle for the Grid, which is a paltry number by any measure, they are at least all extremely well defined and fun to play. Most typical fighting game archetypes are covered: Kat is a hyper rushdown-focused character, Tommy and Jason are great all-rounders that can do a little bit of everything, Mastodon Sentry and Ranger Killer are extremely effective zoners, Goldar and Magna Defender are the big, slow bruisers that dish out huge damage with just a few successful hits, Gia is a mid-range-focused powerhouse, and Drakkon fills the role of the tricky character with his highly technical mixups and move set.The main issue with Battle for the Grid is that everything surrounding its fundamentally solid and fun fighting system is utterly lacking. It’s not a very appealing game to look at, coming across as a marginally better-looking version of the Power Rangers: Legacy Wars mobile game and nowhere near up to the standard of the recent surge of fighting games; there’s virtually no voice acting outside of the announcer at the start of a match and a couple of monstrous growls from Goldar; the music is generic soft rock that quickly becomes repetitive because there are only five themes across the five stages; Arcade Mode is a bust, with virtually no story and poor AI; Training Mode lacks the basic function of being able to record and playback moves; there are plenty of graphical and sound bugs; and there’s no option to rematch in online play.To be fair, Battle for the Grid is a budget-priced game with $20 for the standard version at launch, and the content offered certainly matches up with its reduced price. There is also a $40 Collector’s Edition with the Season One pass, featuring three additional fighters down the line and a few skins, which seems of much more questionable value.
Trials Rising Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/02/25/trials-rising-review|I’ve long since stopped physically leaning into my turns while playing racing games, but something about the Trials series still has me twisting and jumping in my seat as if doing so will just give my rider that little bump they need to get over an obstacle. The nail-biting reaction time and delicate finesse required to get through the hardest courses Trials Rising has to offer makes them as thrilling to overcome as ever, driving me to return to them to crash and burn and improve my times endlessly. Counterproductively, though, it works against that urge with some tweaks and new additions which take the focus off of that loop of self-improvement and put it instead on repetitive challenges and discouraging PvP competition.Trials Rising is still fundamentally Trials, which is good because Trials is still fundamentally awesome. Something as simple as driving a bike across a 2D level with nothing but gas, brake, and leaning left and right to control yourself wouldn’t seem too complex, but there’s a pool of technical skills to master here as deep as an ocean – and Rising gives Fusion’s unwieldy (if occasionally amusing) MTX trick system the boot to keep moment-to-moment gameplay closer to the core of what makes Trials fun.Speeding through a course for the very first time is a tense game of quickly reading the terrain in front of you and adjusting your speed and balance on the fly to smoothly roll through it as fast as possible. Doing so takes far more than just holding down the accelerator because there are lots of little tricks you need to learn in order to master Trials’ physics-based movement. Earning a gold medal on my first try was always a proud moment, but I was just happy to have made it to the finish line at all on some of the more technical courses. Going back and improving on those levels was a different game altogether, one that’s more about solving a momentum-based puzzle and then perfecting my route.The 100-plus levels in Trials Rising are well designed in both layout and visuals, generally going with more grounded themes than Trials Fusion’s abstract areas, now based loosely on real-world locations like skateparks and the Great Wall of China. The soundtrack has also switched to almost entirely grungy licensed music including Motorhead and Stone Temple Pilots – it sounds like it was taken straight off of my middle school iPod, which initially gave a nice Tony Hawk-vibe but quickly wore thin when I realized how small (and thus repetitive) the library was. It didn’t take long for me to mute it entirely and resort to Spotify for my own soundtrack.Rising is a great looking game, even if it isn’t any sort of huge graphical improvement over Fusion. Its levels feel visually deeper and lusher, and a little bit less like sets and more like real places where these tracks could have been set up in. The backgrounds have more detail and seem to stretch further into the distance, and cool moving elements like trains and cars can zoom in and out of your path to make the tracks feel less isolated from the environment around them, though less so once you get into the super technical late game stages.Most levels still manage to remain fairly easy to read at a glance, too, as Ubisoft has developed a great visual language for when objects will move or shift, usually marking them with orange and white lines that enable you to react faster even on a first playthrough. That makes unexpected and unfair crashes as the floor falls out from under you an uncommon occurrence – assuming you’re paying attention.I particularly loved levels that really broke out of the straightforward track formula, letting you drive through a crashing airplane or along a moving train. A Hollywood level early on shows just how crazy the environments can get, including with a CGI alien movie blipping in and out of existence as you briefly ride through a blue-screen studio. Some of these locations do get revisited and remixed as harder versions in later levels though, which was a little disappointing, but they are generally different enough that they don’t feel like cheap rehashes.Unfortunately, unlocking all of Trials Rising’s levels really starts to drag because of an ill-conceived change to the way the series has traditionally worked. The courses are split into nine main leagues, most of which have eight tracks with a few that have less toward the end, and you unlock new leagues by beating the previous one’s Stadium Finals: a fun series of three shorter, multi-lane races which only unlock once you’ve earned enough XP to reach a certain player level.Tying new stage unlocks to your level instead of the medals you’ve earned like in previous Trials games is Trials Rising’s largest misstep – far larger than I initially thought it would be. For the first half of the campaign I was generally a high enough level to unlock a new Stadium Final well before I finished that league’s courses, but the second half slows down to an unreasonable degree. It took me over 13 hours to unlock the bulk of Rising’s courses– not including some secrets I won’t spoil – but a large part of that time was spent grinding its new “sponsor” Contract challenges for experience.Rising’s Contracts replace Fusion’s Challenges, rewarding you with experience and cosmetics for beating a stage while completing a particular set of requirements. Those can range from something as simple as getting a bronze medal or doing six backflips to a combination of multiple objectives at once, like beating a specific level in a certain amount of time while doing 50 meters of wheelies and 10 front flips… while on fire.Some of those Contracts are fun, especially the simpler flipping ones that made me look at a course differently as I tried to figure out all the best places I could weave in a flip without losing too much speed. At their best, Contracts are an amusing way to shake up the Trials formula. But as they get harder they can start to get downright infuriating. And apart from finding some hidden collectibles in levels, there aren’t any Contacts like the cool challenges in Fusion that would ask you to hit secret buttons or finding hidden areas – at least not that I’ve found.While I would gladly put these contracts off until later, the kicker here is that Contracts are the fastest way to get experience by an enormous margin, making them essential to leveling and unlocking new Leagues in a reasonable amount of time. Later on you need 10,000 experience for one level-up, and it wasn’t uncommon for me to unlock a new League and need nine more level-ups to get the next one. That’s 90k experience I needed to earn, with the hardest Contracts only offering roughly 3-5k each.Many of the earlier Contracts will offer around 1k or less, and simply improving your time on a Hard track from a silver medal to a gold one without a Contract offers up a meager 450. That means that the part of Trials I’ve always loved – beating my times, gradually getting faster, and earning better medals – is essentially a waste of time when it comes to unlocking everything. The balance for experience gains here is totally out of whack.Trials Rising’s late game should be a celebration of its well-crafted and satisfyingly challenging final levels, but instead it's a daunting grind as I did wheelies and flips until I just couldn’t take it anymore. I still haven’t even managed to unlock its ultimate final track, The Grand Finale, because the idea of grinding the level-ups needed to get there hardly seemed worth the reward of a single new track.The core problem here is that you aren’t really given a choice between doing Contracts or improving your times. In Trials Fusion, you could either go for better medals to unlock more tracks or do challenges to gain experience for other rewards. Having both leveling and unlocking leagues tied to optional Contracts makes time improvement completely secondary to progression. Not only does that seem backwards, it makes failing on Contracts I essentially have to complete whether I want to or not frustrating in a way crashing never was before.That frustration is compounded by Trials Rising’s more enthusiastic focus on competition, always pitting you against ghosts of random players to race against. That isn’t too dissimilar to past games in theory, especially when they are ghosts of friends, but since every single-player run is now framed as a “race” it can substantially sour victories. It sucks to be proud of finally completing a hard Contract or course, only to be greeted by the random player avatar that got “first place” slapping its butt at me to a taunting kazoo song. In contrast, Fusion would encourage you by focusing on the friends’ times that you did manage to beat instead of taunting you with who you lost to.None of this ruins the satisfying glee that comes from getting better at Trials once everything is unlocked – the Trials fundamentals are still executed flawlessly here, and I’m excited for the community to start populating Rising with impressive custom levels that I don’t need to worry about unlocking. But the change of direction and attitude makes the prospect of filling its swanky world map up with places to go more discouraging than it ought to be.Trials Rising also has simultaneous PvP in addition to its asynchronous options, but I wasn’t able to test it out ahead of release. There was an open beta event the weekend before launch, but I couldn’t actually find any opponents when I tried to use its matchmaking during that period.Surprisingly, learning how to actually play Trials Rising is far easier than it’s ever been, as its new tutorial is undoubtedly the most impressive addition. It’s the first time I’ve felt like a Trials game has actually taught me the techniques needed to best its challenging end-game levels instead of forcing me to resort to YouTube videos that better explain its trickiest moves – and that’s partly because Ubisoft hired the person making the videos I was watching to help. Having this instruction included, and in such detail, is revelatory for the Trials series.Concepts like bunny hopping, throttle control, and more aren’t just told to you and then moved past like in previous games. Instead, each one has its own course dedicated to teaching, showing, and then letting you practice that move as much as you’d like. They have detailed explanations of the physics behind the moves, an NPC rider next to you demoing exactly what to do, and increasingly difficult obstacles for you to slowly improve on.At the same time, all of this is out of the way if experienced players want to ignore it, but these tutorial levels go a long way toward teaching hard moves to people who might otherwise never learn what they’re doing wrong. And, in opposition to the almost combative nature of the rest of Trials Rising, the tutorial is constantly encouraging you to do your best and just manage what you can. Its positive attitude took the sting off sucking at a new move (more than a random avatar mooning me, that’s for sure) and it made me wish the whole game took that stance.The level editor, on the other hand, throws you right into the deep end. It remains an unbelievably powerful tool – potentially one of the robust level editors in any game around – but at the expense of accessibility. It’s not poorly designed or laid out, just nigh-infinitely complex, and as a result can create nigh-infinitely complex levels. I am happy it continues to be such a strong inclusion, but mostly because it means I get to play the shared creations of people with more patience and talent for using it then I’ll ever have.The Nintendo Switch version of Trials Rising is similar enough that this review still holds true, but it’s definitely not quite up to par with the others. The graphics are reduced (though not distractingly so, especially in handheld mode), but the Switch’s lack of analog triggers is the real pain point here. It means you have zero throttle control with the right trigger and instead have to use the right stick to subtly control your speed. It’s not ideal, but it makes the later levels possible. The Switch version is still suitable as long as your goal isn’t to blaze to the top of the hardest leaderboards, but you should probably get Trials Rising elsewhere if playing on the go isn’t important to you.That emphasis on customization has also been extended into your rider’s cosmetics this time around, and with it comes everyone’s favorite 2019 progression mechanic: loot crates. Leveling up earns you a crate filled with three cosmetic-only goodies – you can also buy them for in-game currency but not real money, though a premium currency that can be bought with real money or earned by finding hidden collectibles is needed for a small handful of special cosmetics. Crates can contain pieces of clothing, bike parts, or nearly any of Trials Rising’s copious amount of stickers that are used in its extremely impressive character customization.Pretty much every item can be decked out with up to 200 individual stickers from a selection of hundreds of unlockable ones, which you can then modify, color, and place wherever you’d like. It’s a fiddly and slow process, especially if you aren’t using a mouse and keyboard on PC, but one that can reward you with your dream custom character. And if you’re too lazy to make your own, you can head over to the community market and spend in-game currency on cosmetics other players have customized themselves and shared.The versatility of the customization and the fact that it doesn’t affect gameplay in any way doesn’t mean its loot crates don’t totally suck, however. There are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of stickers, compared to a relatively smaller pool of clothing and bike pieces. That means loot crates are a non-stop stream of obscure and often boring stickers (mostly varying squiggles, paint splats, or geometric shapes, with an occasional cool one like a tiger thrown in) that get dropped into a messy sticker menu where you may never be able or even care to find them again.The loot crates seem to have an issue with duplicate drops as well, as I unboxed the same front fender part for a bike five times in my first 10 loot crates, two of which were literally in the same box. Those can thankfully be sold for in-game currency, which can then be used to quickly unlock specific items or stickers you like. Again, this is all just cosmetic, but it’s almost laughable how stupid these loot crates are. They are thankfully unobtrusive too though, and I was able to find a look I was happy with for my character fairly quickly despite all the unnecessary clutter.Another new addition to Trials Rising is the inclusion of the Tandem bike, which gives two local players control over the same bike. It almost feels like a Skill Game (special levels that also make a return with wacky tasks like bailing out to bounce along explosive barrels as far as you can), but you can amazingly use it on nearly every course. It’s hard as nails and requires a ton of coordination to lean and accelerate properly together, but it’s definitely a creative novelty with which to break up solo play.
Tetris 99 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/02/20/tetris-99-review|Tetris 99 is the "This is Fine" meme in video game form – only instead of ignoring encroaching flames, you have to keep your cool during an onslaught of gray garbage blocks piling onto the screen from any of 98 other players in the match, making each moment more panicked than the last. Sometimes it really is fine, and the right sequence of movements mixed with a little luck returns my grid to a nice, orderly structure. Other times the garbage is too much, and all that remains of my screen is a gray dumpster that signals an early exit from this frantic, pulse-racing spin on one of the most beloved puzzle games of all time.I get irrationally nervous during a seemingly solid run; a palms sweaty, heart beating out of my chest, jittery kind of nervous. If I had a blood pressure cuff on during a top-10 run, my doctor would probably tell me I need to be on medication. When I make it into the top five, I feel like I can run through a brick wall. I also feel like I’m going to pass out. I’m 99 percent sure Tetris 99 is bad for my health. It’s a vice I will gladly live with, though, because the overbearing tension is also what makes it such a thrilling and ultimately fulfilling multiplayer experience.Multiplayer Tetris is nothing new, but the massive player count really ups the intensity because danger can come from any direction. This is you and 98 strangers in a battle to see who can be the last person standing, with all of their screens shown, in miniature, in the borders of your own, lending it a very busy look and feel. Other than that, Tetris 99 appears to be pretty much the same old competitive Tetris, including the classic music. Clearing lines and getting combos sends garbage blocks at your opponents, but here there’s a new layer of risk-and-reward strategy in where you choose to send them.In the two games I’ve managed to win, I’ve used a combination of the targeting options to my advantage. You can either manually move the cursor to choose a player to target, or pick between one of four presets: Random, K.O.s, Attacker, and Badges. K.O. piles onto players who are already close to death, and if you’re the one who strikes the killing blow it increases your multiplier (from 25, to 50, to 75, and 100 percent) for how many garbage lines you send to future targets when you clear them. Attacker automatically sends cleared lines to those targeting you – represented by yellow lines from their miniature screen to yours – which can be helpful as a defensive strategy. Alternatively, Badges targets players with the most knockouts, which is a risk because they are typically among the best in the field and will likely fire back, but the reward is that if you knock them out you absorb their multiplier. It would be nice if Tetris 99 had a tutorial to explain that these cool new mechanics exist, though, because it currently doesn’t bother.Tetris 99 often feels like a lot to handle, especially when the speed increases at the top-50 and top-10 marks; but like in any version of Tetris, if you play quickly enough it’s possible to keep your board relatively clean, which enables you to fight back when attacks come. There’s a helpful delay of a few seconds between when you’re notified of incoming garbage and when it actually fills the bottom of your grid, and clearing lines during this brief window goes towards eliminating that pending onslaught rather than sending it to another player’s screen.It’s not all about skill, however – sometimes it does feel like luck plays a large role, either for or against you. In my 125-plus rounds played so far there have been at least a half dozen where I made it to the top 10 without getting targeted more than a couple of times. And then there are rounds where I’ve been perpetually in five or more players’ sights until my early death, outside of the top 50. Random targeting seems to lead to this excessive deluge of garbage blocks on my grid. And that only multiplies when you’re near death and you start taking heat from those hunting for knockouts. Reversing my fortune when I’m a line away from death feels unbelievably good, and chipping away enough to throw the garbage back where it came from makes me positively giddy.Even with some occasional losses that felt unfair, Tetris 99 still largely rewards skill. By no means am I an expert Tetris player, but I’d consider myself above average. Playing both quickly and with forethought led to a ton of high finishes. Earning that number one spot for the first time honestly felt like one of my best gaming triumphs.My longest round took less than 10 minutes, so Tetris 99 is an ideal game to play in short spurts in handheld mode. My Switch, however, has been glued to my hands since Tetris 99 launched (for free for subscribers to Nintendo Switch Online), as dutifully noted by my overall playtime in the stats. It also tracks a bunch of stats like cleared lines (singles, doubles, triples, Tetris’, T-spins etc.) and career wins. I do wish it kept count of top five or 10 finishes, too. There’s technically a leveling system, but as of now it’s nothing more than a number that shows how addicted you are to Tetris 99. There are no other modes or features beyond that, which makes it feel a little barebones – but this single mode is interesting enough on its own.
Wargroove Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/01/30/wargroove-review|Someone at Chucklefish clearly got tired of waiting for Nintendo to bring back Advance Wars, because Wargroove’s turn-based tactics combat is as close to a modern, fantasy-themed revival as you’ll find. But this isn’t a game that relies only on its gorgeous pixel-art nostalgia to win your love: Wargroove is a challenging and extremely fun tactics game, with great multiplayer options and a level editor strong enough to make an entire tactics game of your own.Instead of controlling a party of bespoke heroes like in a Fire Emblem game, Wargroove gives you a unique commander and has you summon waves of disposable units mid-battle. Obviously you’ll still want to play smart and keep your troops alive, but removing that fear of losing someone with a name and a face to perma-death or having to worry about getting your favorite characters kills to level them up makes for a lighter and snappier tactical flavor.Every unit type feels useful in one situation or another, with their utility depending heavily on the layout of the map and the enemies in front of you. Wargroove’s four factions are visually distinct in cool ways, but they all have access to the same troops – the exception being commanders, who each have a unique ability called a Groove. The basic units have others they’re weak and strong against, and it’s a satisfyingly tricky task to successfully adapt to what your opponent is doing.If a map is spread out, I would usually invest in faster units like Cavalry to cover more ground, but that comes with the risk that the enemy could counter with relatively cheap Pikemen. If they were buying lots of air units, I could try to counter with Shamans (one of my favorites thanks to their ability to heal) or Ballistas to shoot them down. I also love that each unit has a flavorful condition for dealing critical hits that’s determined by positioning, not luck, making movement more than just marching forward. For example, Pikeman crit when standing next to each other, while the adorable Battlepups have to surround an enemy as a pack.The battle animations for all of these units are super cool, too – direct successors to those in Advance Wars – with lots of little details depending on the terrain or the combatants (like the doggos “running away” instead of dying, thank goodness). They do get old eventually, though – and frustratingly, you have to hold the button to skip them for about half the length of the animation itself. I ended up turning them off entirely to avoid that frustration, but I wish there was an inbetween option just to speed them up.Wargroove’s dozen-plus-hour campaign is expansive and a lot of fun, but has some problems with overly long missions that can sometimes take an hour or more to beat. Not every mission is that long, but the ones that are definitely drag when they can feel won or lost long before they end. It wouldn’t be nearly as big of an issue if you could save mid-mission (you can quit and pick back up where you were later, but not create saves to load after a loss, presumably to prevent save-scumming) as losing toward the end of an hour-long match is far more frustrating than it is challenging.Thankfully, Wargroove’s campaign has adaptable difficulty options – far more granular than the simple easy/normal/hard settings of its Arcade mode – that let you scale damage taken, money made, and Groove ability charge time up or down, individually and a little bit at a time. If you’re having trouble with a specific mission you could just increase your money a bit, or if you’ve beaten the campaign already you could make things harder for an extra challenge. I ended up playing a the latter half of Wargroove with my damage taken at just under 100%, not because it was too hard – though there are undoubtedly some very tough missions – but just to make sure I didn’t lose at the last second of a mission again, which just isn’t fun.Wargroove’s surprisingly smart AI deserves some of the blame there, but “competent AI” is a pretty good problem to have in the long run. It’s not going to crush an experienced player or anything, but it definitely kept me on my toes more than most do. Unlike a lot of other tactics games, it wouldn’t easily get baited into my traps as I danced around just outside its attack range. It would also prioritize weakening my strong units (lower health also means lower damage output in Wargroove) and cleverly retreat its damaged ones. I just wish the latter tactic didn’t result in it dragging out all-but-won matches occasionally as I chased an enemy commander into the corner of the map.The campaign’s light-hearted war story is cute and funny, but about as deep as a puddle. It’s a fairly straightforward tale peppered with goofy moments and even a pop culture reference here and there – early on a character says an undead horde “will be back, and in greater numbers” as a hat tip to Star Wars. Its cast of amusing characters range from an excessively shouty villain to a small child piloting a large battle puppet to a dang dog in armor leading troops – his name is Caesar and he is a very good boy – but they aren’t much more than vehicles for jokes and fights.Meanwhile, there’s no leveling or out-of-match progression beyond unlocking new missions, which makes the draw trying to get the highest rank you can on each level instead. But you don’t even get to choose which commanders you bring into battle despite your traveling party growing as you go, and I frequently wished I had that added control. The end result is an enjoyable but fairly thin campaign. Still, it’s one with mid-mission secrets and unlockables I’ve yet to find, and I am looking forward to diving back in to track them down.By contrast, the fast and fun Arcade mode feels better suited to Wargroove’s strengths. In it, you pick one of the campaign's unlockable commanders and play through five fights with some even lighter story to string them together. The key difference here is that the maps are always mirrored and often much smaller, keeping the odds even and the matches to the more enjoyable 20- to 30-minute mark. The varied maps are randomly selected from a few dozen hand-crafted options, making quickly building a strategy for each an exciting brain teaser, though that’s diminished after a while once you start to see the same ones again.Arcade is good preparation for a similar setup in PvP, too, and Wargroove’s options are pretty much the gold standard for multiplayer turn-based strategy games. Local play with up to four players works well enough, especially for co-op maps, but the online options are what’s really impressive: Wargroove has cross-play for PC, Switch, and Xbox One, including map sharing – though, surprising no one, Chucklefish says there will be no cross-platform support for the PS4 version when it launches there later this year. And while you can take turns back and forth like normal, it also allows for seamless asynchronous play. That means you can leave and come back whenever it’s your turn, potentially managing multiple matches at once. Simply put, that rules.The included Puzzle mode is also a highlight, though one that kept me coming back to it less than the others. Each puzzle drops you into a small fight already in progress and gives you a single turn to accomplish some goal: kill the enemy commander, get a unit from point A to point B, etc. They can be super challenging to work out, and often forced me think about my movement in new ways that I could then take with me into other modes.But what really gives Wargroove its legs is its staggeringly powerful editor. It’s a fairly simple tool to learn that enables you to make pretty much any map you can dream up. Placing objects and painting on terrain does feel better suited to a mouse, but its UI is easier to navigate with a controller, which means it’s generally easy and fast to use on any platform as a result. There are a couple annoyingly absent features, however, like a simple undo button.Bigger than that, Wargroove also lets you create and share fully detailed campaigns, complete with your own cutscenes, optional side-quests, and even flippin’ co-op if you want it. It’s basically “Advance Wars Maker,” especially when you think about the custom sprites and other mods that will no doubt arrive for the PC version – I doubt it will take long before someone literally remakes Advance Wars with a mod, and Chucklefish currently has plans to let PC players share those modded maps like regular ones. But even without mods on the other platforms, whether you want to make a simple PvP map, a one-off co-op level, or a whole new story mode, Wargroove gives you built-in and accessible to use tools to do so.It’s super simple to share and download custom creations across all three platforms, too. There’s a featured tab to highlight some of the top ones, though it’s not totally clear how stuff gets selected to go there. The biggest thing that custom browser needs a better differentiate good levels or denote difficulty, similar to what we see in Super Mario Maker, but there’s at least a “Report” button for the inevitable deluge of dong levels sure to be uploaded after launch.
Onimusha: Warlords Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/01/16/onimusha-warlords-review|If you've ever caught yourself wondering if PS2 games still hold up, I suggest picking up a copy of Onimusha: Warlords. For all intents and purposes, it's exactly the same as it was when it first released in 2001, but that’s not necessarily a good thing in 2019.It's not without updates, but they're minor additions to a game I really enjoyed 18 long years ago. The most notable addition to Onimusha: Warlords are its new, HD graphics. But they're not "new," like you would find in a full-in remaster like Capcom's gorgeous upcoming Resident Evil 2 remake. The graphics are wrapped in shiny new high-resolution textures, but are otherwise the same as they were in 2001, and boy oh boy do they look it.Those 2001 pre-rendered backgrounds and low-polygon count character models look absolutely primitive by today's standards. There are games running on your phone that look better. If anything, freshening up the textures without bringing anything else into the modern era really brings out the creakiness of the PS2-era graphics.Character animations are stiff, and faces have an unnatural plastic smoothness to them. Their fingers don't move at all, stuck in a permanent, almost Ken-doll-like half open pose during cutscenes. There's a weird twitch to them, too, when they're supposed to be otherwise motionless.The pre-rendered cutscenes were a real treat in 2001, but in 2019, they look their age. I remember seeing them on my PS2 and being blown away by what was then high-quality CGI video. Now it just looks bad.Speaking of which, one of the most glaring old-school quirks in Onimusha: Warlords are its unskippable cutscenes. You can't even skip through dialogue. Instead, you are required to watch everything unfold. It's incredibly frustrating when you lose to a boss, or otherwise die, and have to sit through the same cutscene again.Death is another part of Onimusha where its aged mechanics are front and center. There's no modern save system here, so you must find a magic mirror to mark your progress. I found it really irritating, especially since boss fights don't have save points near them. Dying against a boss means not only do you have to rewatch an unskippable cutscene, but you also have to retrace your steps through the castle between the last save point and the boss fight.Like many other turn-of-the-century survival horror games, you spend roughly 50% of your time fighting enemies, and 50% running around to find an item to fit in a lock so you can open the next part of the game. There's a lot of back and forth here. Since the backgrounds are stationary and prerendered, as was the style at the time, I had a hard time getting a sense of direction. I'd run around a corner and suddenly be facing the opposite way. I couldn't get my bearings, and the primitive map system barely helps. On my next playthrough, I'm sure I'll be able to breeze through thanks to a newfound sense of familiarity, but on my first time in nearly two decades, I spent a sizeable chunk of time running back and forth, trying to remember where it was I saw a door requiring some manner of medallion or key.For all its dusty gameplay mechanics and frustrating old-school backtracking, I still found myself enjoying playing through Onimusha. I definitely swore more than once after dying and needing to suffer through a cutscene again, but there's something quaint about its aged pre-rendered backgrounds and choppy character animations. It's more than a game set in another era, it's a game from another era. Frustrations aside, there's still fun to be had.The Dark Realm sidequest remains one of my favorite in gaming, and I was more than happy to revisit it on Nintendo Switch. The reward for making it through the rush mode is just too fantastic to ignore, and being able to try (and try again) in handheld mode makes it a fun, mindless time waster with a fantastic, almost game-breaking, reward.Collecting souls to upgrade weapons gets a touch grindy, but playing on Switch, I didn't mind so much. Grinding souls is a nice way to waste some time in handheld, but I don't imagine it's nearly as fun on a non-handheld system like Xbox One or PS4. After all your weapons and orbs are maxed out, which took me about 3 ½ hours of the 5-6 hour campaign, you only need to collect souls to recharge your magic and life, which takes the edge off a little.
New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/01/09/new-super-mario-bros-u-deluxe-review|“Though [New Super Mario Bros. U] doesn’t necessarily redefine Nintendo’s iconic hero, it still manages to capture the sense of carefree adventure that many of us felt as kids. More importantly, the game contains a significant amount of challenge, both within its story mode and outside of it. This game has clearly been designed by a team that regards Super Mario World with as much affection as those of us who grew up with it. Were it not for the game’s weak graphics and audio, plus the return of the irritating chaotic, bouncy multiplayer mode, this game might rival some of Nintendo’s better 2D accomplishments.”Similar to other Wii U releases such as Mario Kart 8, Nintendo has bundled New Super Mario Bros. U with its DLC, applied a few gameplay tweaks, and resurrected it on the Nintendo Switch in the form of New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe. While this new (New) game still retains a healthy amount of its Mario magic, it now finds itself on a console overflowing with high quality platformers, making it feel slightly less essential than it did seven years ago.Toadette’s most powerful ability is activated by the new Super Crown pickup, which transforms her, somewhat bizarrely, into a pigtailed Peachette. Peachette handles like a more maneuverable version of the existing Flying Squirrel ability, and allows you to shake the controller or tap a button in midair to launch her upwards. Not only does this give you the chance for a last ditch leap up to safety when you’re about to plummet down a hole, but it also means you can access many secret areas much more easily than you can with the other playable characters. In some cases the more elaborate uses of hidden blocks or vines can be skipped entirely with one fell Peachette swoop, and hard to reach Star coins can also be more easily snared - which is handy when you're trying to mop them all up in order get a 100 per cent completion.Yet in practice his inability to use pickups like Fire Flowers or Super Acorns gives him considerably less agency than the other characters, and since he’s still susceptible to falling down holes he’s neither particularly exciting to play nor completely infallible, which makes him a less than perfect option for youngsters than perhaps he could have been.But despite the new characters, the inclusion of New Super Luigi U, and the return of the various extra challenge modes all making for a robust 2D platforming package with substantial replay value, New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe still struggles to stand out among the crowd of its platforming peers on the Nintendo Switch in 2019. Rayman Legends is more fun with friends, Celeste and Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze offer a fiercer challenge, and Super Mario Odyssey is a far more surprising and inventive Mario game. If you missed the Wii U original, then New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe is still well worth a look, but it ultimately doesn’t bring enough major additions or improvements to elevate it above the pack and make it a must-have for returning players. (If you are one of those returning players who enjoyed the game's co-op multiplayer, it's worth pointing out that the touchscreen-based Boost Mode feature from the original release is absent here due to the differences in hardware setups between the Wii U and the Switch.)
Gris Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/12/13/gris-review|Gris is a visual masterpiece. It’s a living watercolour illustration that explores the complex themes of loss and grief through a visually arresting world and affecting orchestral score. At first glance, Gris looks to be a fitting bookend to a year that started with Celeste - a game that married an exploration of mental illness with incredible platforming gameplay, but ultimately its basic level design and many minor frustrations make its exceptional qualities feel only skin deep.Gris has some of the most amazing visual design in video games.Gris's focus on symmetry can sometimes make its levels difficult to navigate.Platforming in Gris is simple but can feel tedious.
Katamari Damacy Reroll Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/12/12/katamari-damacy-reroll-review|I’d like to share a truth with you. And that truth is that even Time – that Great Devourer of early polygonal graphics, that beast which hath smote and sullied many a PSone and PS2 icon, that ravager of (gaming) worlds – is powerless against the might of Katamari Damacy. This joyous game’s deliberately low-poly art style has proven to be not just a great artistic choice in its era, but the key to ensuring it ages with grace. About the only thing the PS2 version needed was a bump in resolution to really ensure its blocky aesthetic works on a modern screen, and with Reroll, that’s exactly what we have – and it’s glorious.Of course, the real genius of Katamari Damacy is its central, simple, Blob-like idea: roll up things that are smaller than you (as represented by your katamari ball) in order to absorb them and grow, which then allows you to roll up larger things. It’s a through-line that takes you from rolling up thumbtacks and takoyaki all the way up to people and trees, and then onto an apocalyptic scale where you’re consuming ocean liners, cities, and the clouds themselves.As a big-picture concept it’s inspired, but it also translates to compulsive gameplay that challenges you to evaluate how to harvest items in your surroundings based on your current size, and plan out how to keep moving and growing to make the most of the time available. Katamari’s levels are nothing more than spaces filled with stuff – everyday stuff at that – but it taps into the innate motivation to collect things and makes it the prime driving force, teasing you with the idea that – if you’re efficient enough – you can collect the entire world.Most levels don’t have the full shift in scale, but every change in scale is somewhat magical. The same environment is re-invented over and over again within a single mission, allowing you to see it from a new vantage point and to double back and subsume things that were obstacles only a few short minutes ago.It’s conceptually elegant, and paired with controls that are deliberately a little unwieldy to give your ever-growing katamari a feeling of weight; it’s something your tiny character has to wrangle to keep under control. The battle to find precision with a massive, knobbly, protuberance-laden ball of things is part of the charm, even if it can be frustrating to get wedged somewhere and slough off bits before you manage to extricate yourself, or to be blindsided by larger creatures or vehicles. There’s also the minor issue of the sometimes-arbitrary-seeming rules about what is or isn’t small enough to roll up at your current size.Katamari Damacy is not a hard game, however, so you’re unlikely to fail a level because of a momentary hiccup or two. For the main levels, it’s mostly just a question of how much bigger than the initial target you can get your katamari before the time limit hits. These levels start out at five minutes and gradually get longer and encompass bigger changes in scale, culminating in an epic, delightfully surreal 25-minute finale.It’s a testament to the strength of the vision that Katamari Damacy can take everyday settings and a huge catalogue of - mostly - real world objects and animals, and tease out something so bizarre and wonderfully absurd. Of course, it doesn’t hurt that the soundtrack is infectious, wide-ranging, and well-produced, nor that the story is anchored by one of the most memorably offbeat characters ever given life in a video game. Yes, I’m talking about the King of All Cosmos – the self-obsessed space deity and absent father to the player character’s Prince. He sets the story in motion by shattering all the stars in the night sky while on a bender, then demands that you help create new celestial bodies by rolling stuff up with your katamari. It’s all the story Katamari Damacy needs, and a handy jumping-off point for many of the side-missions.These riff on the celestial theme by demanding that the Prince replace the constellations of the zodiac. Need to make a new Pisces? Roll up as many fish as you can. Gemini? Roll up twins! These levels feel particularly quirky thanks to the narrower focus. You’ll discover crowns growing in the radish patch in Make Corona Borealis, for instance, while in Make Virgo you’ll roll up so many “maidens” that your katamari ball will be a writhing mass of flailing appendages – like a playful, pop art version of Inside’s final moments.Unlike the main missions, these have no fail state but offer a good challenge for those who want to actually find all the requisite objects in each. There are a handful of other twists, too, such as Make Taurus, which simply asks you to roll up the largest cow you can. Here, the trick is to grow large enough to roll up a hefty heifer without accidentally rolling up something cow-related – like a carton of milk – that will instantly end the level. This level may have a time limit of 10 minutes, but it can be over in 10 seconds before you learn what to avoid. It’s an interesting but somewhat unsuccessful experiment, as the larger you get the more likely it is you’ll accidentally run over something tiny that counts as a cow by accident and lose all your hard-earned progress. It can be frustrating and punitive in a way other levels aren’t, in other words.More successful is Make the North Star, in which you’re not told how big your katamari is and instead must nominate an end point to the level when you think you’re close to 10 metres in size. As a long-term fan, it’s cool revisiting all these levels again, not to mention rolling up absolutely everything in the time limit-free Eternal stages.I should mention, however, that Reroll doesn’t feel great with the Switch’s Joy-Con thumbsticks, and I wouldn’t recommend the newly implemented motion controls either. I spent most of my time on Switch using a Pro Controller and on PC using a DualShock 4. Your mileage may vary – I think the Switch sticks are uncomfortable and lack precision in general, and also refused to play Breath of the Wild on the road for the same reason.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/12/06/super-smash-bros-ultimate-review|As series director Masahiro Sakurai said himself, it’s a miracle Super Smash Bros. Ultimate exists. Having Mario and Zelda duke it out against Street Fighter’s Ryu and Final Fantasy 7’s Cloud on a battlefield from Metal Gear Solid is a weird, wonderful thing that only the Smash Bros. series can deliver – and Ultimate is undoubtedly Smash Bros. done big and done right.With 74 fighters (depending on how you count), 108 stages, nearly 1300 Spirit characters to collect, and a single-player Adventure mode that took me a full 24 hours of playtime to beat, Super Smash Bros. Ultimate offers far more in a single package than any of its four predecessors. And while it occasionally felt like pruning away some of its weaker bits could have made Ultimate an even stronger and more consistent whole, excellent new mechanical and aesthetic additions make it stand out as far more than just a rehash of old ideas. It’s nothing short of the brand-new Smash Bros. game I’d imagined as the ideal sequel for the Switch.See us discuss our Ultimate review in the video above on this week's NVC.Smash Bros. has always been a fighting series that successfully pleases two crowds that are usually at odds: those who are seeking the pure, chaotic joy of an eight-player button-mashing brawl and those who prefer tense matches of hard-fought, high-level skill. While more competitive-minded players may turn off items and only fight on the completely flat Final Destination stage (or the functionally identical “Omega” versions of any of its other stages), others may find that unexpected items, deadly stage hazards, and epic Final Smash finishing moves are just as much at the core of what makes Smash Bros. great. Both – and every setting in between – coexist beautifully in Ultimate.More so than any previous game in the 19-year Smash Bros history, Ultimate is all about gathering as many iconic characters as possible from all over gaming – stretching far past its Nintendo-only origins – and letting you pit them against each other however you’d like. It’s a digital action figure toy box overflowing with the childhood memories of countless gamers, but with the beating heart of a competitive fighting game.It’s also remarkably easy to jump in, choose your favorite character and just start fighting, since it doesn’t take much more than the control stick and two buttons to have access to most of a fighter’s moveset. Unlike the Street Fighters, Mortal Kombats, and Tekkens of the world, here there aren’t complicated input-combos beyond pressing A or B along with a single direction, making it simple to learn what a character can do just by playing around instead of having to look up move lists and spend time in a practice mode.The fact that fighters don’t have health bars gives Smash Bros. a rare accessibility that keeps its high skill cap from feeling intimidating. Instead of wearing an opponent’s life down, you are increasing their percentage – the higher it goes, the easier they are to smash away with a strong attack, and knocking them off the map entirely gets you a KO. While it’s still scary to be at high percentage, this system avoids that depressive feeling of “any little hit and I’m dead, so this is pointless” that traditional fighting games can sometimes cause when your health drops to a sliver. In Smash Bros. Ultimate, it feels like you’ve still got a fighting chance.And while that accessibility is important, those looking for more technical nuance will find plenty of it in dodges, grabs, shield timings, and a veritable ballet of mid-air movement strategy – not to mention how all of this changes with the different abilities, attacks, and even weights of every character. A fast, tiny character like Pichu feels wildly different from the hard-hitting Bowser, and learning the subtleties of playing both as and against them is vital. There’s a deep well of combos and counterplay for those who want to dive into it all, and it feels like Nintendo is more actively aware and supportive of that side of Smash Bros. than it has been before.None of these traits are new to Ultimate specifically, but it’s important that the key elements of what makes a Smash Bros. game a Smash Bros. game are all alive and well here. And while the framework and DNA of Super Smash Bros for the Wii U is very clearly present, this doesn’t feel like a simple port or a “Deluxe Edition” by any means. Due to there just not being that many Wii Us out there, I wouldn’t be surprised if many of the people playing this latest iteration missed the last Smash Bros. entirely, but Ultimate doesn’t lean on that assumption as a crutch, and leaves essentially no part of the previous design untouched.Fighters in Ultimate feel a little bit faster and a lot harder hitting overall. Launching an enemy with a Smash attack now feels a bit like punching a balloon, with fighters flying away faster before losing speed quicker. That means there’s often less ambiguity on whether or not a hit will turn into a KO, with fewer of those frustrating moments where you slowly drift toward an unexpected death. (There’s even a radar that appears when a player is off screen to show where they are in relation to the edge of view and the edge of destruction – an addition I liked, but can be turned off for those who don’t.)In one-on-one fights or when only two fighters remain, there’s a seriously epic freeze-frame zoom effect when you land a hit that will almost certainly result in a KO, similar to what already happened with Little Mac’s KO punch. That alone makes those big smash attacks even more satisfying, and makes it even clearer when someone actually has a chance to recover from a hard hit or not.Many of the Final Smash attacks have been made easier to handle as well. Some of the more inconsistent ones like Pac-Man, Pikachu, and Donkey Kong have been changed to hit more reliably, and Final Smashes that lock enemies into an animation for guaranteed damage are more common across the board. That makes them feel like less of an imbalance when playing with Smash Balls on (which are almost frustratingly hard to catch now), and the introduction of an optional Final Smash Meter that slowly charges up for a weaker version of the move offers a completely new way to weave these exciting finishers into a match.Thankfully, if you don’t want to play Smash Bros. the same way I do, Ultimate has made it significantly easier to adjust the rules of a match. You can now make custom rulesets to save and reselect whenever you’d like. I had one for my default preference, one for using the Final Smash Meter, one with no items or stage hazards at all, one where the only items are Poké Balls, and as many more as I wanted. Saving rulesets is a godsend so that you don’t have to keep making the same big changes over and over when the mood to play a different way strikes, but it does make slightly tweaking rulesets on the fly (say, if you want to add an extra life for a round or two) more cumbersome, leaving me wishing we had the best of both worlds.A new rule option called Stage Morph quickly became one of my absolute favorite additions to Ultimate. It lets you pick two maps in stage select and then set how long into a match the level will transform from one stage to the other. It’s a fantastic way to experience more of the absurd 108 maps Ultimate has to offer, and can even let you do interesting things like start on a large map but then transition to a smaller one once some of the combatants have presumably been eliminated – just make sure you aren’t toward the edges of the stage when that happens or you’ll likely drop to an undeserved death.However, the level-select UI itself isn’t ideal. It’s literally just a giant grid of barely discernible pictures of each stage organized by the date of their debut Smash Bros. game. I greatly prefer this to having to scroll through options one by one as some other games have their stage selects laid out, but there are so many levels so closely packed together that I forgot some existed, and often had to spend considerable time hunting for the specific one I want. It’s a pretty spoiled problem to have, but I still wish I had the option to sort them alphabetically or by game, or at least tag some as favorites.The levels themselves, however, are generally great. It’s not every single level that has ever been in Smash Bros. like the character list is (I don’t care what anybody says, I miss you, Poké Floats!), but it sure feels comprehensive. It’s a bit of a bummer that only four of them are brand new, but previously 3DS-only levels like Tortimer Island and Paper Mario still feel like fresh additions on Switch – some of the classic returning levels have also been visually touched up and look absolutely fantastic, particularly Fourside and Corneria from Melee.Still, there are a few bad apples in the bunch that had me confused why they made the cut when others didn’t. Pretty much the only good thing truly terrible stages like Pac-Land and The Great Cave Offensive bring to the party are interesting skins for their Omega and Battlefield variations – the map pool would have been stronger as a whole without them dragging down the average.Similarly, while cool new items like the Beastball and Rage Blaster have been added, stupid and busted ones like Boss Galaga, the Gust Bellows, and the Beetle have stuck around. These egregious items and stages aren’t a huge issue since Ultimate gives you the tools to easily turn them all off when you make your rulesets, but it does make it feel like Nintendo focused more on quantity over quality when deciding these lists.However, I am happy that Nintendo took this approach for Ultimate’s character roster. Having every character ever, good or bad, return was an ambitious and excellent decision. Ultimate’s roster is downright incredible, with a wealth of attitudes, games, and play styles represented. The decision to classify certain characters as “Echo” fighters instead of full new characters is also a long time coming, making glorified reskins like Daisy and Dark Pit feel less like they’re stealing a roster spot from someone else.Six entirely new, non-Echo challengers have joined the fight, with six more coming as DLC over the next year or so – Piranha Plant will be free until January 31 before becoming paid DLC like the other five, which will also bring new stages with them. None of them particularly break the mold of what a Smash Bros. character can be (though that’s diverse and widely explored territory already) but they are each varied in their own way and all feel right at home in Ultimate.The standouts for me are undoubtedly Simon Belmont from Castlevania (and his Echo, Richter) and King K. Rool from Donkey Kong. Simon’s abilities feel extremely true to his game, throwing axes, boomerangs, and explosive vials of holy water, with whip-based smash attacks that reward precision and careful timing. Meanwhile, King K. Rool feels like the giant, unhinged crocodile villain he is: a wonderful blend of crazy, terrifying, and extra beefyness.Isabelle from Animal Crossing is also fantastic in the adorable charm she brings, but feels fairly derivative of Animal Crossing’s Villager in terms of her actual moveset. Inkling shakes things up drastically with a tricky and slightly unintuitive ink-ammo system that you have to refill as you fight. But no matter how new or old they feel, every one of the 11 new fighters and Echos is a welcome and creative addition to the roster.Just don’t expect to play any of them you want right out of the gate. While there are 74 fighters total, you only start with 11 unlocked – the original eight from the first Super Smash Bros. on N64, plus the three custom Mii fighters if you make them. It’s not hard to unlock more – a new one tends to appear every few matches, or you can hunt them down in the Adventure and Classic modes – but with so many, it’ll likely take you at least at least 10 hours to fill out your roster through multiplayer alone. There are cheesy ways to speed that up, but growing my collection naturally while I played with friends was genuinely exciting.The more people you have playing with you, the faster unlocks will arrive, and Ultimate has thankfully broken down the barriers between four-player and eight-player Smash. While playing with more than four people was previously relegated to specific large maps, it’s all one mode now. Eight-player Smash Bros. is still an unwieldy but enjoyable mess, but being able to seamlessly get a fifth player in on the action was appreciated.And if you don’t want to subject yourself to that chaos, playing one-on-one is just as easy as it’s ever been. There are even little added touches here, like the number of lives each player has left being enlarged on the screen anytime any player dies. There’s also a cool new mode called Squad Strike which lets you pick either three or five different fighters and fight in a “Best Of”-style head-to-head match – this mode can also just let you play what is essentially a 1v1 Stock match, but where each life is a new fighter.While multiplayer really is the point of Smash Bros., the big single-player draw in Ultimate is a new system called Spirits. There are nearly 1300 Spirits in Ultimate, each of which is a character or recognizable thing from video games as ubiquitous as Super Mario Bros. and as obscure as the 1992 Japan-only Game Boy game Kaeru no Tame ni Kane wa Naru, and every one is represented by a piece of art from its source material. While I miss the detailed trophies of past Smash Bros. games, the ludicrously large selection of Spirits makes it a worthwhile trade-off – another example of Nintendo choosing quantity over quality.While seeing so many Spirits from all over gaming is extremely cool, everything about the system those Spirits are used in feels overdesigned. In certain modes, you can equip one Primary Spirit at a time (which have three types in a Rock, Paper, Scissors-style weakness system) alongside up to three Support Spirits, all of which give you buffs or new abilities like immunity to poison or electricity. Primary spirits can be leveled-up either through fighting or by feeding them snacks (which also costs a currency called Spirit Points) or Spirit cores, which you get from dismissing duplicate Spirits – but you can also use cores to summon new Spirits, but only if you have the very specific correct ones to do so.It’s fun to tune your team of Spirits during the Adventure mode, World of Light, or while collecting Spirits on a timed, randomized menu called the Spirit Board, but navigating this system is sort of a mess. As with the level select, the system for organizing and equipping Spirits is just a big ol’ list, eventually hundreds of Spirits long. There are filters to help you find specific abilities like immunities to certain damage types, but if you want to find a very specific effect – say, starting a fight with a Beam Sword – and don’t remember which obscure character that belongs to, you pretty much have to go through them one by one to find it. Because of that hassle, I generally stuck with a few I found powerful and used the “auto-fill” recommendation button otherwise.The most impressive part of the Spirits is the fights you have to win to collect them. Nearly every Spirit has a battle specific to it modeled after the character itself, using Ultimate’s roster and special effects to loosely recreate them. Some are funny, like Snorlax being a giant, gray King K. Rool who doesn’t move an inch, while others are challenging and emulate the games they are from, like Dr. Wily, which is essentially a “Boss Rush” where you have to defeat eight Mega Man fighters in a row in a Stamina-based match before a Dr. Mario appears to face you.Beating these Spirit fights earns you that Spirit outright in World of Light, but annoyingly, that’s not the case on the Spirit Board. There, beating one gives you a strange roulette wheel challenge where you have to try and shoot that character through a spinning shield. Hitting gives you the Spirit, while missing means you have to wait for them to randomly show up again, beat them again, and shoot again with a smaller shield guarding them.It’s a pointless and frustrating step to add to this process, especially when there are over a thousand spirits to collect. I never found a Spirit fight I didn’t find amusing or clever, which is impressive in itself, but they are also a novelty, and that’s fleeting. That Snorlax fight is fun once, but it quickly lost its charm when I was forced to do it again because of a bad shot after the fight. And unfortunately, for the fights I did find clever enough to want to revisit, like Dr. Wily, there’s no way to refight a Spirit you already have apart from hoping it shows up on the Spirit Board again. Still, there are just so many Spirits here that the sheer variety of the Spirit Board keeps it fairly amusing on its own.Spirits really feel like they were designed with World of Light in mind, though the mode ends up being fairly one-note because of that. Super Smash Bros. Ultimate’s Adventure mode has a shockingly elaborate and long campaign that took me 24 hours of playing to beat, and even then with only 84% completion. It’s a consistently amusing mode, but despite being longer than many full games nowadays, I came away from it feeling like it was still just pretty good icing to accompany Smash Bros.’ excellent multiplayer cake.World of Light has you exploring a massive board full of winding paths, all blocked up by hostile Spirits along the way. You start with only Kirby unlocked and wander the board picking fights, collecting and leveling up Spirits, and unlocking characters as you go. There are smaller dungeon-style maps to enter, some light puzzles to solve, and even massive unique bosses to fight, as well as a whole bunch of secrets to collect.While World of Light’s overworld can start to feel rather samey after a bit – a series of arbitrary paths over a varied and lovely 2D map – the dungeons offer some really exciting surprises. The standout for me was a whole section modeled after a Street Fighter World Tour mode, with custom rules that make it Stamina-based with low jumping to emulate Street Fighter gameplay. Others are similar hits of nostalgia that recreate or pay homage to different games, and they’re worth discovering on your own.The problem is, through all of this you are still just doing endless Spirit battles. They are themed nicely around each section of the map – a racetrack area is where I fought Captain Falcon and the Excitebike Spirit, while I found Star Fox’s Peppy and Super Mario RPG’s Geno among the stars – but it’s essentially the exact same process of fighting Spirits on the Spirit Board, just set on a hodgepodge map of unique areas.Everything you do in World of Light is centered around getting and improving Spirits, but I found enough strong Spirits to get me through almost any fight roughly 10 hours into the campaign. That meant I played roughly 14 more hours without any sort of significant progression for my character, and most extras I was incentivized to collect were fairly pointless. Seeing what creative new Spirits fights were waiting for me was still consistently fun and amusing, but my strategy not needing to change for so long made it start to get dull toward the end.There’s also a skill tree in World of Light that lets you get some massively powerful abilities. By the 13-hour mark, my smash attacks charged extremely quickly, healed me, could be charged indefinitely, and gave me super armor so that I couldn’t be interrupted during them. That meant I could win most Spirit fights in two or three well-placed smash attacks, trivializing most fights I faced. That also made the copious amount of unlockable Spirit training Dojos and item shops similarly pointless, despite being super cool from a flavor standpoint.While they also get significantly easier, the boss fights did continue to delight. I was blown away by the fight against Monster Hunter’s Rathalos in particular, as it recreated the feeling of that game far more faithfully than expected. You first had to chase the Rathalos around a dungeon map to its nest, then could use Pitfall and Deku Nut items to trap and stun it to deal damage. It was extremely cool, even if it wasn’t overly difficult by that point in the campaign.And that’s sort of World of Light overall: it’s amusing, enjoyable, and extremely detailed, but also pretty thin. The Spirit fights are neat and their quantity is downright unbelievable, but the only difference between fighting them on the Spirit Board and on a map is that one gives you access to abilities on an incredibly strong skill tree. The problem isn’t directly the campaign’s length itself, but the lack of significant change during that time – as it stands, Nintendo likely could have trimmed five hours of fat and had a more compelling Adventure mode for it.That makes me a little sad, because there are undoubtedly enjoyable surprises worth experiencing buried amongst the tidal wave of Spirits that are very difficult to access. The last hour of World of Light in particular is one of the greatest video game finales I’ve played in years, and actually made the preceding 10-plus hours of repetition worth it. There isn’t much story during World of Light, with cutscenes that are gorgeous but only appear at the beginning, middle, and end, but that ending still managed to get me invested and absurdly excited about what was unfolding before me.Still, despite World of Light’s well not being nearly as deep as it is wide, it’s a mode I enjoyed overall. Smash Bros.’ alternate modes have never traditionally been full-on slam dunks, which isn’t a problem as long as they don’t mess up the multiplayer along the way. And while Spirit teams can be optionally turned on in PvP, there’s no pressure to do so, which lets World of Light live happily as an amusing distraction.Outside of the realm of Spirits, Classic mode makes a return with a slightly tweaked format. Every fighter has a custom-made gauntlet of six opponents to face, themed loosely around them – for example, Bowser has to fight through every red character in Ultimate before facing off with Mario. There’s also a surprisingly amusing auto-scrolling platformer in each run, and the boss fights from World of Light are reused here as well, making them easier to revisit than the Spirit fights themselves.100-Man Smash makes a return, now called Century Smash, alongside All-Star mode and the still aptly named Cruel Smash. There’s no target or challenge mode, but there are enough achievement-style challenges that offer rewards to keep you exploring old modes in ways you might not normally think to. I am also particularly a fan of the new Smashdown multiplayer mode, which eliminates fighters from the select screen after you’ve used them once. Simply put, there’s a lot to distract you when you need a break from standard Smash and World of Light.Another returning feature from the Wii U Smash Bros. that I absolutely love is the music selector. Ultimate has one of the most impressive libraries of game music I’ve ever seen, and you can hand pick which track a stage plays when you select it. You can even create playlists of your favorite songs and turn off the screen to use your switch like an iPod, though I had pretty rough results with buttons getting pressed and songs getting skipped around while mine was in a case in my bag, making it better for home use than on the go.That said, I was shocked by just how great Ultimate looks and runs in handheld mode. This is a truly fantastic-looking game – a noticeable step up from the last one – and it doesn’t feel trimmed down at all when played mobile. (Its level-select issues are made predictably worse, however.) But there seemed to be no noticeable performance difference between the two modes.Either docked of handheld, the only real issues I noticed were related to load times, but mostly in places where it didn’t matter much. For example, waiting for Mii fighter outfits to load in the creator makes building a character annoyingly slow, and a fighter’s alternate colors can sometimes take a few seconds to appear on the character-select screen, but matches, menus, and everything else important loads fairly fast. There was also some very slight frame lag during character select with eight players, but that seems forgivable considering it disappeared during the match itself.On the hardware side, playing with the Switch’s Joy Con controllers works okay, but they don’t really allow for the best Smash experience. I am a huge fan of the Joy Con generally, but the flatter joysticks and digital triggers aren’t ideal for the fast and precise movements Smash Bros. demands. I spent most of my time playing Ultimate with my childhood GameCube wireless WaveBird controller with a USB adapter, but the Switch Pro Controller works extremely well, too. It’s nice that there’s a variety of control options, and you can even use a single sideways Joy Con in a pinch (though I don’t really recommend it), but getting a peripheral controller feels more necessary here than with other Switch games.Ultimate also has some pretty interesting online features, including a system that essentially lets you collect the virtual dog tags of anyone you beat online. Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to test this out because the online features weren’t available ahead of launch. We’ll have to monitor those post-launch and see if there are any issues, but if Splatoon 2 and Mario Tennis Aces are any indication, Nintendo seems to have a significantly better handle on online play than when Super Smash Bros. launched on the Wii U.
Warframe Review - Switch Update|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/11/20/warframe-review-3|[Editor's Note: With Warframe's release on Switch, we’ve taken a fresh look at the whole game in 2018. This review and score replaces both our original PC and PS4 reviews from 2013, and you can find our new Switch-specific impressions below. Read more on IGN's re-review policy.]There aren’t many games that make me feel as cool as Warframe does when I’m bullet-jumping through the air at breakneck speeds. While this free-to-play co-op shooter has wildly outgrown its original “space ninja” reputation since it first came out in 2013 – adding open-world areas, deep story missions, and even a hoverboard with a Tony Hawk-style scoring system – it’s the way it makes everything you do feel fast, powerful, and just plain awesome that keeps me coming back to its almost-endless well of loot.Warframe is a dense game – a tangled ball of yarn made up of almost six years of updates, additions, system reworks, and content drops. Its different bits and pieces overlap and twist together in a way that can make it overwhelming to even think about trying to untangle it all, but it also means that there’s an almost inconceivable amount of deep and often extremely entertaining content to discover once you do.Its fast pace and shorter mission structure can often have the same appeal as Diablo 3, rushing through procedurally pieced-together maps mowing down waves of enemies, collecting powerful items and crafting materials along the way. But varied objectives, enemies, and locations, coupled with non-stop waves of limited-time events and special missions, means there’s always some unique twist to that loop.Constantly being pulled so many different ways makes Warframe a notoriously difficult game for new players to get into. Even after a few dozen hours, it can be hard to make sense of what missions you should be completing and what items you should be trying to collect. This is, for better or worse, a game that you’re going to need a wiki to play, as nearly all of the info about where exactly to find specific crafting components or blueprints isn’t directly available in-game.Thankfully, Warframe’s player base is one of the nicest and most enthusiastic communities I’ve ever interacted with. The wikis available are insanely comprehensive and easy to use, and even just asking for answers or help in the global chat will often result in friendly players giving you a hand. Still, it can be frustrating to get an exciting new weapon blueprint only to see it requires a crafting material you didn’t even know existed and are dozens of hours away from acquiring.Once I made it over that large hump of confusion and started setting clear goals for myself – get to the next planet, craft a certain weapon, complete a quest line – Warframe stopped looking like a tangled ball and started feeling more like a sandbox full of treasures waiting to be dug up. There are plenty of curated quests that offer set goals as well, but picking your own is vital to keeping your head above water in the ocean of stuff there is to do.While the later-game quests have been pushing into plot and cutscene-driven stories more frequently (to great success, I might add), 99% of the time I’ve put into Warframe has been spent running through its halls looking for new stuff to gather – crafting materials, item blueprints, weapon mods, or one of its copious amounts of currencies.Layer after layer of new systems has undoubtedly made Warframe harder to penetrate, but the actual run-and-gun (and slash and bash) gameplay is so dang satisfying that it’s worth digging into. The movement has been refined and rebuilt over the years into something that feels lighting fast and incredibly versatile. Meanwhile, every rifle, pistol, shotgun, bow, hammer, sword, whip, and blade fan feels distinct in how they handle, giving real variety to the weaponry you choose beyond raw stats. Pinning enemies to walls with the heavy-hitting Boltor is a very different feeling from the rapid-fire Furis pistols, just like slamming someone with the Fragor hammer is satisfying in a different way from slicing off limbs with the Heat Sword.The battlesuits Warframe is named after let you flex your preferred playstyle as well, with each one representing a unique personality and theme. There are straightforward Warframes like Mag or Frost, which use magnetic and ice abilities, respectively, but also stranger options like Limbo, which can temporarily put enemies in another plane of existence, or Titania, which can turn into a tiny butterfly and zip around at rapid speeds.However, I’d occasionally go whole missions without using those abilities at all, as they can sometimes seem either ineffective or like overkill depending on the situation you’re in. The healing abilities of Trinity are almost always useful, but moves like Mag’s Magnetize I pretty much only used against a very specific type of recurring boss. Choosing which Warframes to use and how to effectively harness their abilities is another thing that just can’t realistically be learned in-game.I do love that any Warframe can use any weapon combination, meaning you can mix and match what feels best to you. It also lets you go hard into one type of damage if you are facing enemies weak to it, or you can take new or under-leveled weapons along with maxed-out Warframes to quickly catch them up to your other equipment – similar to putting your weaker Pokemon at the front of the party before swapping them out.Enemy variety is broken into distinct and interestingly designed factions, most frequently the militaristic Grineer, the tech-focused Corpus, or the ravenous Infested monsters. You kill most of them the same way – shoot or punch them a bunch – but each faction has special enemy units that can’t always be tackled so directly. Some will have bubble shields to wear down or weak points that need to be hit, and each faction has its own strengths and weaknesses to certain damage types and elemental effects. I really like that you always know what faction you’ll be fighting before a mission so you can prep accordingly.Warframe is primarily a PvE game – there are multiple PvP modes with fan bases of their own, but they were never very interesting to me and never felt like they were essential – so there’s a wonderful freedom in using whatever guns and abilities you find fun. There are, of course, better and worse options, but you don’t really have to start worrying about min-maxing your loadout for pure power until you get into the significantly harder missions toward the outer reaches of the solar system map. That means if you see a cool Warframe that can breathe fire, you can make it your goal to learn how to get it, find its blueprint pieces, and then breathe some dang fire. It’ll probably take a long time, but picking and pursuing journeys like that is the point, and it was endlessly gratifying for me.And if you are into min-maxing, the potential here is absurd. There’s a deep and rewarding well of number crunching for the dedicated to dive into, though again, that also makes it borderline hostile toward more casual players who want to take on the hardest fights Warframe has to offer without having to do tons of out-of-game research. Warframe’s convoluted weapon-mod system is often where people say “I don’t think I can play this” when I show it off to them, and not unreasonably so.Every weapon type, Warframe, companion, vehicle, and more has its own set of dozens and dozens of mods to collect – usually stat boosts like increased damage, reload speed, or special elemental damage effects. Those mods can then be upgraded (using a special mod-only currency called Endo) and installed into an item’s mod slots to unlock their true power. Mods and mod slots also have matching polarities to take into account, and you’ll need a whole different (and very rare) item to change or improve those. It’s… a lot, and I’ve barely scratched the surface here.Modding is pretty much mandatory, though, because most weapons and Warframes start extremely weak, and mods are the only way to actually make them worth using. Nearly everything you acquire starts at Mastery Rank 0, leveling up to Rank 30 as you use them and letting you install more mods. It’s not intuitively clear at the start, but having the wrong mods equipped can easily be the difference between breezing through a mission and getting annihilated outright.Once I figured all of this out the mod system provided a wonderful depth of choice, letting me customize my playstyle around a certain damage type or weapon and allowing pretty much any item I wanted to use to be a decent choice with the right mods. Giving Soma Prime, one of my favorite guns, a mod for a percentage-based increase to its already massive magazine meant I basically never had to stop firing, and a mod for higher crit chance capitalized on that endless stream of bullets. Mods also mean that somebody who buys a super-rare weapon with real money (which, yes, you can do but really shouldn’t) usually still needs to rank it up and get the right mods before it’s any good.Of course, the importance and nuances of the mod system are never properly explained. Even after years of playing and plenty of time spent reading wikis, it’s a system I still don’t like fully engaging with – I often use the option to auto-select my mods, then make tweaks based on what it suggests because the mod menus are cumbersome to navigate. I’m glad the automating option exists, as otherwise it would have completely overwhelmed me early on.Thankfully, a more actively curated modding approach is only really required when you hit the wall of a mission that’s too hard to beat. At that point, I’d dive back into the wiki and figure out what type of weapon damage my enemy was weak to, what guns and Warframes might be best against them, and what mods I needed to upgrade to buff those choices. Shining moments where a well-laid-out plan pays off are extraordinarily rewarding, and make the mess of menus, currencies, and upgrades empowering instead of intimidating – but I still wish everything involving mods was easier to deal with and learn.Playing with friends or finding a community within Warframe can help smooth this over, but it is actually fairly easy to play solo as well if you’d rather not engage with that side of things. With the exception of high level missions, as well as one objective that has you protecting four capture points at once, it’s fairly doable. Matchmaking is there whenever you need it, and I always enjoyed queuing into random groups once I got a handle on things – except for in certain stealth objectives, which felt too much like I was putting the mission’s fate in a stranger’s hands.Some of the more structured story quests actually require you to play on your own as well, offering more bite-sized bits of story with special missions, fights, and rewards. For example, progression to new planets is often locked behind certain quests, and a lot of them revolve around the story of a specific Warframe that you’ll then unlock access to after completion. A larger plot with your character as the central protagonist has also been slowly unfolding through main quests over the last two years or so, and it’s filled with quality cutscenes and acting that I wouldn’t have expected from Warframe’s earlier missions. They are genuinely exciting and engaging, and I rush back to play every time a new chapter is added.The quality of the quests overall is mostly positive, however they can be a little hit and miss. A quest called The Glast Gambit was painful to get through, forcing me to replay the same uninteresting PvP game mode against AI a half dozen times. But another called Octavia’s Anthem had one of the most clever and cool final bosses I’ve seen in any game, having you battle enemies while jumping around a giant musical instrument.Thankfully, there are enough quests and other missions to keep you going for dozens of hours before running out or even having to be bogged down by a bad one, and even then you can be confident developer Digital Extremes is working on the next one. The studio’s support of Warframe is nothing short of incredible, standing as the gold standard for live games, let alone free ones.Warframe’s free-to-play model generally doesn’t get in the way of the fun either. Apart from the majority of cosmetics, pretty much everything can be acquired through playing – though unsurprisingly some of it will take you a significant amount of time and grinding to do so. But it’s hard to be too upset by that when updates are free, new story missions are free, and pretty much anything else that would make you feel like you might be missing out if you don’t pay is free.The only place it really hurts is inventory space, which is limited unless you use a premium currency called Platinum to expand it. Like I said, Warframe is a game about collecting, and the restrictive inventory space is antithetical to that – you can only hold two Warframes before you need to buy more Warframe slots, but there are currently 59 collectible ones. For someone who doesn’t want to pay, that stings.The silver lining is that those inventory expansions are relatively cheap (getting two extra weapon slots costs 12 Platinum, which is roughly less than a dollar) and are literally the only part of Warframe where it felt remotely necessary to spend money. You likely won’t even start to worry about running out of space for a few dozen hours. And if you really want to avoid paying, you can also take rare items you find and sell them to other players for Platinum in a trading hub to afford more slots – a method that works, but is fairly slow.But Warframe has provided me with so many hours of enjoyment that it has never been a hard decision for me to spend money. I don’t ever spend Platinum on items or crafting materials because that would essentially be paying to not play Warfame – even the items that take a crazy-long time to collect all the materials for are supremely rewarding to finally craft with your own hard work – but you get an insane amount of content for no money. A couple bucks to carry more guns wasn’t a hard call for me.The cosmetic options are also surprisingly expansive. There are a fair amount of base colors to choose from (with an absurd amount of different shades and palettes to buy with Platinum) and every piece of equipment has five different color areas to modify, in addition to adjustable decals, armor attachments, and fancy new helmets. Even without spending money, you can do a lot to define a signature look for yourself in what the community affectionately calls “Fashionframe.”Warframe just has so much to do whether you spend money or not. Even if some of its missions and modes can be hit and miss, it’s extremely easy to ignore the stuff you dislike, focus on the stuff you do, and still have a near-endless amount of game to play. The newest addition, Warframe’s second open-world area called The Orb Vallis, is practically a whole game you could get lost in for hours before remembering there are more than a dozen other planets waiting to be explored.Warframe’s Switch port has been extremely solid. Its graphical quality has been noticeably tuned down a bit relative to the PC, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4 versions, just as with other visually lush games ported to Switch (like Doom or Wolfenstein II), but it still looks surprisingly great and runs well. The framerate is locked at 30fps docked or undocked, but it seems to have held that extremely well in my time with it, with only slight slowdowns occasionally. And because Warframe is largely a PvE game, I haven’t experienced any annoying lag while playing on Wi-Fi (unless I’m connected to someone with a massive ping).I appreciate that you don’t need the Nintendo Switch Online membership to play, and flat-out love that it can do voice chat by plugging a headset directly into the Switch in the same way Fortnite does – any game that avoids the terrible Nintendo voice chat phone app is doing it right. Unlike Fortnite, there’s no cross-platform play and no way to use the same account across different platforms, but neither of those issues are limitations of the Switch version specifically. It is notable that if you’ve been playing on PC you’ll be able to copy your account over to the Switch, though after that you can’t sync up your progress going forward.The lack of offline mode does mean you won’t be able to play Warframe on the go, even while playing solo – which, unfortunately, undermines the major selling point of the Switch as a whole – but it otherwise feels right at home. I’ll always prefer a mouse and keyboard to a controller for Warframe (though it does have optional Breath of the Wild-style motion aiming with the Joy Con that has proved helpful) but it’s still undoubtedly one of the best free-to-play games available on the Switch.
Sid Meier's Civilization VI for Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/11/15/sid-meiers-civilization-vi-for-switch|When I first reviewed Civilization VI back in 2016, here's what I had to say about it as I awarded it a score of 9.4 (for amazing) and nominated it for game of the year:"Civilization VI will go down in history as the most fully-featured launch version in the series. Many of those are smartly revamped versions of Civ classics, but it finds its own identity with great new ideas like spread-out cities, customizeable governments, research boosts, and leader agendas. And even though the AI has some improving to do, it can put up enough of a fight to make world domination a challenge."Considering Aspyr has already successfully adapted it to tablets and, more recently, to phones, it’s no shock that Civilization VI works well on the Switch in handheld mode. All of the text is fully readable and the cartoonish art style works well on a small screen. Where it breaks new ground is in how the Joy-Con are used to control a complex 4X strategy game in either handheld or docked mode, and the Switch version works almost as well in that capacity. It definitely takes some getting used to before accessing of all Civ VI’s many menus feels natural, but the logic is consistent enough that if you’ve gotten into one you can figure out how to get into most of them.
SNK 40th Anniversary Collection Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/11/06/snk-40th-anniversary-collection-review|Whereas normally a review would try to get to the heart of what makes a game fun (or not), in the case of a compilation like the SNK 40th Anniversary Collection I’m judging the work that was put into curating, presenting, contextualizing, and enhancing the artifacts on display. These games are relics of another time, and in some cases not much fun to play today. But video game history is important, and I’m grateful developer Digital Eclipse is willing to do the work to preserve games that most people today probably haven’t even heard of.Digital Eclipse, known for its work on the Mega Man Legacy Collection and the Street Fighter 30th Anniversary Collection, has put together another attractive museum exhibit for retro game fans to stroll through. The SNK 40th Anniversary Collection focuses on the pre-Neo Geo years of the company -- basically the ‘80s (or The Greatest Decade, as I like to call it). Fourteen games are included at launch:Alpha MissionAthenaCrystalisGuerrilla WarIkari WarriorsIkari Warriors II: Victory RoadIkari III: The RescueIron TankP.O.W.Prehistoric IslePsycho SoldierStreet SmartTNKIIIVanguardSeveral of these games have historical significance. Psycho Soldier (1987) features the first vocal soundtrack in an arcade game. Vanguard (1981) might be the earliest game that allowed players to continue -- there’s even a screen that explains the feature in detail. SNK would go on to make popular fighting games like Samurai Shodown and King of Fighters, but Street Smart (1989) was its first effort in the genre.These are mostly arcade games, and if they received NES/Famicom ports, those versions are included, as well. Some of these represent happy chunks of my childhood -- Ikari Warriors and P.O.W., especially. But they’re all very simple affairs that probably won’t hold interest for long in the year almost-2019.Crystalis, an NES action-RPG, is probably the deepest game in the collection. There is a lot of adventure in this one, but its obtuse, dated design will make it difficult to see much of it. Much like the original Legend of Zelda, it lacks much in-game guidance and the solutions to problems can’t always be solved with logic.P.O.W. was SNK’s riff on Double Dragon, and while the prison camp setting is unique, it suffers from the same shallowness that most arcade brawlers designed to keep you pumping quarters in do.The most pleasant surprise for me was Prehistoric Isle, a side-scrolling shooter involving a biplane, giant cavemen, and dinosaurs that I missed as a kid but would have been pretty radical to my young eyes. It’s a blast.Fourteen games feels a little light for a collection that spans 12 years and 40+ releases. However, Digital Eclipse has promised 11 more games coming on December 11 at no additional cost: Chopper, Fantasy, Munch Mobile, Sasuke vs Commander, Time Soldiers, Bermuda Triangle, Paddle Mania, Ozma Wars, Beast Busters, Search & Rescue, and World Wars. Time Soldiers is similar to Ikari Warriors and will be a nice addition to the collection. Munch Mobile is a really weird top-down driving game about a car with eyes and arms.Your enjoyment of the individual games here will be heavily reliant on nostalgia and a pre-existing affinity for old-timey quarter munchers. What is undeniably impressive about this gallery, though, is the care with which it’s been assembled.As mentioned, both the arcade and home console versions are included where applicable, and it’s fun to compare the two. In many cases, the graphics are superior in the arcade but gameplay was improved or expanded for the home release. The NES version of Ikari Warriors added new vehicles, levels, and a new final boss, for instance. Ikari II on NES added cutscenes and a currency system to purchase upgrades.Outside of the arcade there is a fascinating Museum mode that includes an interactive SNK Complete Works 1978-1990 timeline that walks you through all the key releases of the company’s first 12 years. The guided tour includes information, screenshots, and artwork for over 70 games, many of them obscure works that never made it out of Japan. It’s a goldmine for a retro gaming enthusiast like myself. The entry for 1981’s ninja game Sasuke vs. Commander explains it might feature the first example of boss fights!There is a “day-one” patch planned that should add several quality of life improvements and bug fixes to the SNK 40th Anniversary Collection. Publisher NIS tells me these include a new “single-stick” mode for the twin-stick shooters so that two players can each play with a single Joy Con, and an “auto fire” mode for the twin-stick games. It’s also supposed to fix a bug that sometimes causes the rewind feature to stop working (something I have encountered). But these forthcoming features and updates were not included in the copy I was provided for review.
Starlink: Battle for Atlas Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/19/starlink-battle-for-atlas-review|Starlink: Battle for Atlas feels like it’s trying to crash a party that’s already packed up and moved on. Toys-to-life games like Disney Infinity, Skylanders, and LEGO Dimensions all dominated the toy sections three years ago, but that time has come and gone. That’s not to say that Starlink: Battle for Atlas isn’t good, because it’s a surprisingly rich and ambitious exploration and combat-focused, story-driven experience. But the “toys” part comes off as a little unnecessary, especially when Starlink rewards digital players more than physical ones.Starlink: is a story of space exploration with a ragtag crew of characters who all bring unique personalities and skills to the table. At the very least, Ubisoft has done a good job of establishing the admittedly generic “Starlink” brand into one I wouldn’t mind seeing more of in future games. Cutscenes are well produced and engaging, feeling a little like watching the latest Netflix Original Animated Series play out.The core driving mission, though, is the cliche “bad guy wants to take over the galaxy and it’s up to you to stop him” story that has played out a zillion times before. Luckily this is just the bookends of the experience, and it’s the well-written middle portion that’s the most interesting as you learn about the Starlink crew and history of the star system you’re exploring.The bulk of Starlink’s adventure has you skimming the surface of planets finding abandoned starbases and wrecked observation towers, claiming them as your own by running side missions or wiping out the aliens that have taken over the hot spot.This ship-and-weapons play is the rewarding meat of Starlink’s design. Each of the snap-on ships and weapons have their own attributes that are enhanced by mods collected by reclaiming parts of the planet for the good guys. Leveling up your pilot, your ship, and your weapons is integral to success in Starlink, and that means shifting and swapping your craft’s configurations before, during, and after battle to find the best way to take down the enemy threat.Hot swapping ship parts sounds absolutely perfect for the toys-to-life genre, and the physical tech here is sound. Starlink’s toys recognize the pilot that sits in the ship, the type of ship, which weapons are connected to the left and right wing, the direction these weapons are facing, and any extra wing extensions you’ve added. Need to pause the fight because your heat weapons aren’t doing the job? Just pop off the blaster and drop another in its place.But somewhere down the development line, Ubisoft seems to have decided not to go “all in” on the toys. If you want to simply play Starlink without them, you can just buy the ships, pilots, and weapons digitally. And while you don’t have the tactile satisfaction of snapping parts on and off, the digital versions reduce the physical clutter and speed up the weapon-swapping mechanic.More importantly, when you play digitally, you don’t have to run to the local Target to get the one weapon that’ll get you through a particularly tough encounter, or past a door locked behind a specific kind of elemental weapon attack that hides a rather spicy ship perk. On top of that, the Digital Edition of Starlink actually comes with significantly more guns, ships, and pilots than the physical Starter Edition, giving you a big leg up in-game boost at a lower price.Plus it doesn’t seem like the toys actually store any data to them. So if you put together an incredible configuration of weapons and mods and want to bring your ship to a friend’s place for co-op, all your progress and perks are left behind in your local game’s save profile.Comparisons between this game and No Man’s Sky are inevitable because it really feels like Ubisoft used that game as the core foundation for Starlink’s overall experience. Instead of a vast randomly generated universe full of galaxies and planets, though, you’re exploring just one, hand-crafted star system with less than a dozen. Each planet has its own habitat and personality, and they all look fantastic across all three platforms, with only slight improvements on PS4 and Xbox One.Transitions between planet and space and back again are seamless, fluid, and still a delight to experience. Even with the closed system, the feeling of a vast system to explore is well produced in Starlink. And where No Man’s Sky dropped the ball in its narrative, Starlink makes it a core focus.However, many of the downsides of that inspiration are also prevalent: Starlink’s planetary designs and mission layouts are fairly repetitive, so you’ll experience the same fetch quest, scanning tasks, and base-clearing combat over, and over, and over. Surprises are few and far between when you’ve cleared out an entire planet of missions to complete, blast off to the next planet, and experience it all over again.And the moments flying between planets aren’t nearly as thought out as the planets themselves. If you’re looking for a great dogfighting space combat experience, this isn’t it. Combat favors fire-and-forget missile-style weaponry over pinpoint accurate blasters, so once you’ve learned you can make it out alive by simply spamming your auto-targeting projectiles at any enemy that whisks into view, you’ll keep those blasters parked. It also doesn’t help that pitch and yaw are permanently mapped to the right stick -- a design decision that admittedly makes sense when you understand planet-based combat, but nonetheless feels weird for the first few hours.The addition of Star Fox for Nintendo Switch players is pretty genius. Not only does it legitimize a generically-branded third party game with strong, established video game characters, it also gives fans of those characters merchandise to buy and content to play. Though you can easily see the places where Fox McCloud and crew have been shoehorned into the storyline and its cutscenes, the fact remains that their inclusion was handled with a tremendous amount of respect. The characters have never looked or sounded better. Just don’t mistake this for a Star Fox game, because it’s not. It’s merely a game with Star Fox ships and characters.But even in the versions without the Star Fox content, you can easily see the influence in Starlink. Right down to missions where you zip through gigantic starships to detonate their core. Or the All-Range Mode style boss battles on-planet. Or a particularly Andross-like bad guy, right down to its final showdown.Though the core experience could be completed in little more than a weekend -- the campaign took me roughly 20 hours to beat -- completionists have a whole Pokedex-like encyclopedia to fill up and hidden locations to discover. If you don’t have an issue plowing through the same missions and tasks, Starlink can be a pretty rewarding experience well after the credits roll.
Dark Souls Remastered for Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/18/dark-souls-remastered-for-switch-review|Dark Souls Remastered has, after a lengthy delay, finally arrived on Nintendo Switch. While this is really a technical and graphical polishing of the original – there’s no major new gameplay content – the Switch’s handheld mode adds an absorbing new dimension to what is, for me at least, a very familiar experience. But it also did something I wasn’t expecting: it made the return to Lordran feel oddly new.If you don’t know much about Dark Souls, here’s what IGN said when it first came to consoles...“...if you're interested in the limits of the video game form – to see just how focused, how pure and how uncompromising in its vision a game can be – Dark Souls is unmissable. If you take the time get into Dark Souls' mindset, to begin to understand the twisted way in which it operates and taste the rewards behind its cruellest challenges, this is one of the most thrilling, most fascinating and most completely absorbing experiences in gaming.” – Keza MacDonaldAnd all of that still holds true. Dark Souls remains one of the most demanding yet rewarding action RPGs ever made, set across an intricately designed world that yields its secrets only to the most intrepid and curious.One criticism that can be fairly levelled at the original is its shocking performance in certain areas. Blighttown – already a hostile environment for any player – was plagued by crippling frame rate issues that made navigating its gauntlet of dung pies and toxic darts even harder. Thankfully those problems have been ironed out in the Remastered edition. I reached the end of the game, regularly switching between docked and handheld mode, and never encountered anything that diminished my experience.The Switch version supports up to 1080p in TV mode (dynamically switching resolution depending on the action), which is an improvement on the original, and locked 720p in handheld mode. Both run at a fairly steady 30fps. While this is technically inferior to the 60fps, 4K experience available on PS4, Xbox One, and PC, it’s still such a refreshing upgrade from the original that it really didn’t affect my enjoyment whatsoever.While it doesn’t have all of the texture improvements you can find on those other platforms – bonfires don't burn as realistically, chugging estus has a less showy visual flourish – it only really suffers in a direct side-by-side comparison, and wasn’t something that detracted from my experience, especially in handheld mode. It’s important to remember this is a ‘remastering’ of the 2011 original, not a remake – these minor graphical improvements mostly to polish the original rather than pave over it, which is still a welcome improvement.Dark Souls Remastered includes the exceptional Artorias of the Abyss expansion, but outside of that, there are no major changes to the core experience. There are a handful of quality-of-life improvements that address some very small, dated issues from the original. You can now easily consume multiple items at once, making it much less laborious if you want to buy something with collected souls or deepen your allegiance to a covenant. Incidentally, it’s possible to switch covenants at any bonfire. (Previously you would have to pay a visit to the covenant leader, which could involve a lengthy trek.) It's yet another small change but one that makes exploring Dark Souls’ oblique multiplayer aspects just that much easier. These are minor amendments to the original, changes made with seven year’s worth of hindsight that longtime players will feel more keenly than newcomers, but they’re welcome nevertheless.The option to play Dark Souls in handheld mode is the best thing about the Switch version. When it was first announced for the platform, the idea of confronting Ornstein and Smough on public transport sounded farcical, but in practice, Dark Souls feels oddly suited to a portable device. I found myself using commutes to get to the next bonfire, do one more boss run, or mindlessly grind souls to buy upgrade materials. If you’re familiar with the structure of Dark Souls and its world, it’s easy to give yourself errands to do which suit the pick-up-and-put-down nature of a portable console. (That said, occasionally you will get engrossed in odd places. I sat on the Southbound platform of the Northern Line for 40 minutes until I beat Artorias.) Initially I thought it would be a nice option to have, but it quickly became my preferred way to play on Switch, giving me a fresh new way to experience a familiar adventure.Watch Blighttown gameplay from the Nintendo Switch version in the video below:The surprisingly interconnected world of Lordran looks lovely on the Switch’s smaller screen, despite its lower resolution. One slight grievance is that I had to frequently adjust the brightness setting when switching between TV and handheld modes, and there’s bizarrely no option on the Switch to downsize Dark Souls’ jumbo-sized HUD, which is available on other versions of the Remastered edition. But both are minor gripes against what is otherwise a fantastic port.
The Missing: J.J. Macfield and the Island of Memories Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/18/the-missing-jj-macfield-and-the-island-of-memories-review|Beautiful, brutal and frequently bizarre, The Missing: J.J. Macfield and the Island of Memories is a side-scrolling puzzle platformer that has cult hero game director Hidetaka Suehiro’s (aka Swery’s) fingerprints smudged all over it. Yet amidst the schizophrenic tonal shifts and fantastical, deathtrap-strewn settings, The Missing manages to tell a surprisingly human story that builds to an emotionally powerful payoff at its conclusion. Its execution may be a little rough around the edges compared to genre champions Limbo and Inside, but it brings plenty of its own unique personality that allows it to shine despite the slight lack of polish.
The World Ends With You: Final Remix Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/10/the-world-ends-with-you-final-remix-review|Back in 2008, The World Ends With You quickly became one of my favorite Nintendo DS games. I purchased it again for iOS in 2012 and marveled at how well it played despite losing the DS’ dual screens. After playing the latest re-release on Switch, presumptuously subtitled Final Remix, I’m left feeling disappointed that this may be the way TWEWY goes out. The charming and inventive action JRPG is still here, but only when you play it in handheld mode with touchscreen controls. If you try to play in docked mode with motion controls, it frustrates.TWEWY tells a touching tale about finding oneself in those painfully awkward teenage years. Its characters have complex personalities that, over the course of the 15-plus-hour adventure, grow in both surprising and welcome ways. You play as Neku, a disillusioned young man who finds himself part of a bizarre game in Tokyo’s Shibuya district. Although Shibuya’s streets are crowded, only other players and game masters can see Neku and his companions, and this key idea artfully touches on the stark difference between loneliness and being alone in a way that few games do.From a visual perspective, Final Remix looks slightly better than the iOS version, Solo Remix. The Kingdom Hearts-style character models look really sharp, and the streets of Shibuya have a bit more color and detail. Although it’s not a drastic upgrade, it does give more personality to an already visually distinct world.Some of the actions you’re asked to do include: a vertical slash, a repeated tap, touching an empty space, drawing a circle, or dragging Neku into an enemy. It’s a deceptively nuanced system that gets better the more you play. At first, you only have two ability slots, but you can eventually unlock up to six to really take advantage of the more than 300 available abilities.The taxing motion controls make Final Remix’s main new addition, drop-in-drop-out co-op, disappointing. Instead of having one cursor on screen, you now have two, and Neku’s companion has a set array of abilities to use. In theory, TWEWY would be great for co-op. In practice, due to a bad control system and the confusing nature of two cursors flying around, co-op is a mess. Admittedly, it’s more fun to play in docked mode with a friend than it is solo, but it’s still a poor way to experience TWEWY.
Nintendo Switch Review - 2018|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/27/nintendo-switch-review-2018|A year and a half after its launch, the Nintendo Switch has almost entirely lived up to the initial promise it made. While I may not have brought it out at any rooftop parties, I have played major games like The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Skyrim on the train, had spontaneous Mario Kart 8 sessions with friends, and have still been able to sit down on my couch and play all of those games and more on a big screen. And though daily use has forced a few design flaws into the light, the Switch has easily solidified itself as one of my favorite consoles.The Switch’s biggest selling point truly does stand as its greatest strength: being able to effortlessly bring console-quality games anywhere you go. While it seemed like a lofty goal when the Switch was first announced, it’s one Nintendo has soundly delivered on in almost every way that counts. I love how easy it is to go from playing docked to undocked and back again, and I don’t really feel like I’ve paid for that ability with the quality of the games I’m playing.For more on our re-review process, check out the first segment of this week's NVC in the video below!To be absolutely clear, the Switch is undeniably an underpowered system when compared to the PlayStation 4 or Xbox One, much less the PS4 Pro and Xbox One X, and those sacrifices in power are especially noticeable when you look at graphically toned-down ports like Doom or Rocket League. But the fact that it’s capable of running those games at all while being portable and barely bigger than a plus-sized phone (not including the attached Joy-Con, at least) is fantastic.The $300 Switch’s 6.2-inch screen has a native 720p resolution, but the LCD display itself looks great in terms of image and color quality. The pixel density is high enough in handheld mode that most of the jagged edges that would stand out on even a modest TV are somewhat hidden.Depending on how you use it, that may be the vast majority of the time. Probably 80% of the time I use my Switch is in handheld mode, largely on my train ride to and from work, and I know people who have literally never even used their dock. It feels miraculous to me that instead of the simplistic games we’ve come to expect on phones and tablets or the fun but small-feeling games of the 3DS, this device enables me to enjoy a traditional console-style game of the size and scope of Breath of the Wild away from home.When held in your hands, the Switch’s tablet casing feels like it has been cut as close to the bone as possible without going so small that it starts doing more harm than good. At 9.6 inches wide and four inches tall it isn’t exactly pocket-sized, but any smaller and the screen would start getting uncomfortably hard to play large games on. As is, it’s a great size for most single-player games or online multiplayer – though trying to play a local multiplayer game in split-screen, such as Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, proves why you shouldn’t leave your dock in the box.Before release, I was sure the three- to four-hour battery life of the Switch would be a massive problem, but it actually hasn’t been a noticeable limitation for me. Even with an hour-long train ride each way on my commute, the Switch gets me through the day with a good amount of life left to spare before I dock and charge it back at home each night – and attachable USB battery packs do exist as a good third-party solution if needed.Dropping the Switch into that dock (which is essentially a piece of plastic with a USB-C to HDMI converter, two USB ports, and AC power connector) gives it the juice needed to blow Hyrule up to a higher resolution on a full-sized TV screen. How much of a boost varies game to game, but playing games like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe or Splatoon 2 at 1080p on a TV is a tangible and welcome bump up from 720p in handheld. It can be a little disappointing when a game is unable to take advantage of this feature, such as Pokken Tournament DX, or when one starts below 720p for handheld mode in the first place like in Doom, as the lower graphical quality is much more obvious if games aren’t bumped up to at least 900p on a TV (as Breath of the Wild is).The regular dock works fine enough, but at two inches deep and just as wide and tall as the Switch itself, it’s also needlessly big compared to some third-party options. The front of the dock covers the entire screen, which is a poor design decision on Nintendo’s part because it can scratch the Switch if you aren’t careful – a “dock sock” is a popular stopgap solution here, but it’s a solution for an annoyance that shouldn’t exist. Third-party docks have popped up to offer slimmer, less scratchy options, but there have been reports of these permanently bricking your Switch if used for prolonged periods. Nintendo has warned us to only use the official dock, which makes sense fundamentally, but it’s frustrating that no official dock alternatives or fixes have been made available.Whether docked or handheld, I’ve fallen in love with the design of the Switch’s Joy-Con controllers. They’re available in a variety of decorative colors (the ones in the box are either gray or blue and red by default; extras and alternatives usually cost $50 each or $80 for a set) and can be used as attachments on either side of the tablet, attached to the included Joy-Con Grip handle to form something resembling a traditional wireless gamepad, or independently. They charge simply by being connected to the tablet, and they’ll last a lengthy 20 hours, which is long enough that I didn’t need to think about it often.While using a single sideways Joy-Con is still too cramped for comfort, I am excited to use two Joy-Con together for pretty much every game now. Personally, I enjoy using them unconnected, with one in each hand: similar to the Wii Remote and Nunchuk but without the clunky cable, I love being able to casually hold my arms in any position I want while playing games. The motion controls of a single Joy-Con also manage to be an improvement over the Wii Remote despite the Switch not having a sensor bar, though you do need to hit the button to recenter it on the screen more often as a result.The directional buttons on the left Joy-Con can’t replace a proper D-pad, but I otherwise think the shape and layout of its buttons are very comfortable. Everything is undoubtedly smaller, giving the joysticks and buttons a bit less action than those on a PS4 or Xbox One controller, but they still feel responsive and satisfying to press, and the Joy-Con’s HD rumble feature – which is capable of extremely precise vibrations – makes feedback substantial. The biggest hindrance is in the triggers, which are digital instead of analog, meaning they don’t have a subtle range of motion that would be useful in things like racing games to let you accelerate without flooring it or brake without slamming on the pedal.One feature that feels somewhat like wasted space, however, is the IR sensor on the bottom of the right Joy-Con. I haven’t seen it used at all outside of one or two gimmicky first-party games like 1-2-Switch and some of the Labo creations like the robot and piano kits, and while it was neat, it doesn’t really feel like it adds much substance to the system.Meanwhile there’s a notable omission on the Joy-Con: the headphone jack is only located on the Switch’s tablet, with none on the controller like that found on the current PS4 and Xbox One controllers. That, combined with the also disappointing lack of an option to use wireless bluetooth headsets with the Switch without a dongle, means it’s very difficult to play quietly while it’s docked.That lack of a headset ties into another more troubling issue: since there is no microphone on the Switch, the only way to communicate in first-party multiplayer games like Mario Kart 8 or Splatoon 2 is by using Nintendo’s Android or iOS app. It’s legitimately one of the most inconvenient and baffling design decisions I’ve ever seen a major console maker come up with. It left me confusedly trying to figure out how to listen to both my phone and the Switch at the same time, and Nintendo’s only official solution is to buy a proprietary Splatoon splitter-dongle thing that turns your Switch into a mess of wires reminiscent of an Octoling.And that doesn’t even address how it’s just annoying to have to deal with a seperate phone app when I just want to play a game with friends. It’s crazy how silly this voice system is, especially when Fortnite on Switch is an exception to this rule, letting you simply plug a third-party headset directly into your Switch for voice chat. This means the functionality is there, but Nintendo deliberately makes us jump through hoops for most of its games. It’s a clear example that, although Nintendo has made massive strides forward with its online functionality for the Switch, they’ve still got a ways to go.There are a handful of physical design flaws that have cropped up from wear and tear over the last year and a half as well – largely issues no one could have predicted at launch. One of the most common is reports of the Switch’s battery expanding slightly, warping the back of the case and sometimes cracking the plastic. This isn’t something I’ve personally experienced, but I have seen it firsthand –and it luckily, it seems to generally be a cosmetic issue.One that I have experienced on my Switch is that the latch holding my left Joy-Con onto the side of the Switch has become loose, making it easier for it to detach by accident – though thankfully it hasn’t been an issue at all while actually playing. I’ve also noticed that my kickstand – the plastic piece that pops out and allows you to set the tablet upright on a table – is starting to get loose, and I’m worried it could eventually not lock closed, or even come off entirely. Things like this make me nervous about the system’s durability, and what my Switch will look like two years from now.The Switch comes with 32GB of internal storage, which is pretty small. To be fair, most Switch games don't take up a huge amount of space – Splatoon 2 is about 3GB and Super Mario Odyssey is around 6GB, though Breath of the Wild is a much larger 13GB – so that was enough to cover my downloads for awhile. But eventually I ran out of space and had to buy a micro SD card to add via the slot under the kickstand, which can expand the Switch's storage capacity by up to 512GB. I imagine most people will need one at some point (unless you’re only buying physical games, though even games like Doom require a healthy installation size if you want to play multiplayer), but it’s by no means a necessity out of the gate.The $70 Pro Controller is another pricey peripheral option, but its more conventional design makes it an excellent option for games like Fortnite that require a bit more precision. I know people who also prefer two Joy-Con on the included grip, and many who are excited to plug their GameCube controllers back into the Switch with a USB adapter for Smash Bros. With classic NES-style controllers coming soon (available only to online subscribers) and a custom Pokeball Joy-Con coming to Pokemon Let’s Go, the Switch offers a surprising variety of official controller options.This is one of the system’s greatest feats: it’s brought meaningful choice and preference to console controllers in a way that’s not a just a gimmicky steering wheel shell – though it does have that, too. You may not agree with me that playing with two disconnected Joy-Con is great, but you likely have a controller scheme you prefer. The PS4 and Xbox One have special (and expensive) variations on their controllers with extra buttons, but the Switch really empowers you to find the set-up you like the most – though my condolences do go out to the unfortunate younger siblings out there who will surely get stuck playing Smash Bros. with a single right Joy-Con. RIP.The right Joy-Con also has a built-in NFC reader, bringing back support for scanning Amiibo – of which there are too many to count. The craze for Amiibo has died down somewhat since they were first revealed, but they also seem to be more casually integrated into the Switch’s games now, usually amounting to some extra items or sometimes little bits of DLC. The boosts are almost always optional and small, so Amiibo can be easily ignored if you want, but they are still some of the nicer Nintendo figurines available even without the in-game benefits.“Is it coming to Switch?” has become the semi-ironic battle cry of this console generation, but it’s a question I find myself unironically asking every time a cool new game is announced. Porting a game to Switch is certainly easier said than done, but the industry has clearly heard this cry as well.Third-party developers are flocking to Nintendo’s newest system at nearly unprecedented rates, and the pre-launch concerns about the Switch’s potentially slim lineup (a problem that plagued its short-lived predecessor, the Wii U) have been replaced with an unstoppable onslaught of cool stuff to play – some of it new, but much of it ported from other systems. Soon we’re even getting unexpected ports like Civilization 6, Warframe, and a bunch of blast-from-the-past Final Fantasy games.The past year and a half have seen an indie renaissance on Switch as well, with fantastic games like Stardew Valley, The Binding of Isaac, and Hollow Knight all getting ports. Dozens and dozens of amazing games that may have been PC exclusives or just come out elsewhere during the Wii U’s less indie-friendly era are now on the eShop, quickly building up a comprehensive and incredible library on the Switch.And that’s speaking nothing of the downright impressive list of first-party games Nintendo has been pumping out over the past year and a half. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Super Mario Odyssey were, hands down, two of the best games released in 2017 (both received 10s from IGN’s reviewers), and Ubisoft’s Mario + Rabbids was a surprising tactics hit. On top of that, Nintendo has had an impressive multiplayer lineup too with Splatoon 2, Mario Tennis Aces, Arms, and a straightforward but still excellent port of Mario Kart 8.By contrast, the Wii U went months without anything new worth checking out, but between major first and third-party games Nintendo has done a great job of making sure those same drought conditions never happen on the Switch. And with Super Mario Party, Pokemon Let’s Go, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate on the horizon for 2018 (and Metroid Prime 4, Luigi’s Mansion 3, Yoshi’s Crafted World, Fire Emblem: Three Houses, Animal Crossing, and more Pokemon all slated for 2019) that healthy first-party support is showing no signs of slowing down.Nintendo’s first-party games have also shown that stylized art can produce extremely attractive results from the comparably weaker system, and plenty of 2D games like Celeste or Night in the Woods look just as gorgeous here as anywhere else. It’s only in the higher-end AAA games like Bethesda’s Wolfenstein 2, Skyrim, and Doom ports that the Switch’s graphical deficiencies are glaring.Sadly, those deficiencies have kept many new third-party games off the system entirely. Most of this year’s biggest games, like Monster Hunter: World, Shadow of the Tomb Raider, Red Dead Redemption 2, Call of Duty: Black Ops 4, or Battlefield V, are MIA, and others like Assassin’s Creed Odyssey (and last year’s Resident Evil 7) are only getting half-measure streamed versions that are only available in Japan. It’s something every Switch buyer needs to be aware of, especially if it’s going to be your only current console, because even though you’ll have plenty of exclusives to play you’ll be left out of a good portion of multiplatform gaming.While the flood of exciting games is a good thing, it has its drawbacks as well: namely, the Switch eShop is a mess. It doesn’t feel like it was designed for the amount of games currently arriving on it, and navigating is a hassle as a result. It’s easy enough to find something if you know what you’re looking for, and “too many great games” is frankly a pretty good problem to have, but the eshop doesn’t empower you to browse for that cool new stuff past what’s recent or popular. It’s rapidly heading toward the same frustrating fate that Steam users on PC have been dealing with for years. And as our libraries expand, being unable to customize the order in which games are displayed on your home screen becomes less and less forgivable.That messy shop means you pretty much have to do your game research online before diving in – and by online, I mean on your phone, PC, or almost literally any other internet-connected device, because there’s no internet browser available on the Switch. The Switch is not (to borrow Nintendo’s own term) an entertainment system, it’s a video game system. That’s not a bad thing, but it’s impossible to ignore the fact that it’s missing features that people have come to expect from a console or the tablets that the Switch resembles, and that all of its competitors have.Things like social and messaging features, achievements, home menu themes beyond black or white, and apps for streaming services like YouTube, Netflix, Amazon Prime, HBO, etc. are still nowhere to be found (with the exception of a Hulu app), the latter of which is an odd step backwards from the Wii and Wii U for a console that makes so many other steps forward. True, most of us have so many other ways to watch Netflix at this point that not having one more literally doesn’t impact us in the slightest (and it certainly doesn’t make me enjoy playing Zelda on the train any less) but if you want the Switch to be your only console you’ll need a separate streaming device to compliment it.The Switch’s new online service is similarly pared down, but considering that it costs a third of what Xbox Live Gold and PS+ do, it’s justifiable. For your $4 a month, $8 for three months, or $20 for a year you get cloud saves (a glaring omission Nintendo has finally added), the ability to play multiplayer games online, and a way to essentially activate a limited form of game sharing between consoles.Other than a rotating selection of old NES games (with three new ones being added monthly), you don’t get a selection of free modern games every month, but there are few other goodies like in-game cosmetics and the promise of discount offers in the future. Similar to the lack of entertainment apps, the Switch simply isn’t attempting to offer what the PS4 and Xbox One do, but the lower price makes that easier to swallow.Thankfully, the online play that we’re now paying for has been stable and strong in every game I’ve tried – apart from most of them having temporary problems around each game’s launch, which is often the norm on any platform nowadays. Nintendo has battled connection and lag issues in the past, but it seems like those fights have now mostly been won.
Valkyria Chronicles 4 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/18/valkyria-chronicles-4-review|Valkyria Chronicles 4 comes off as Sega trying to get the series back on track, returning to its roots and leaning heavily on what made the first Valkyria Chronicles so good 10 years ago. That’s mostly a good thing, and this latest entry adds some new mechanics and balance changes that make it feel like more than just a rehash, even if some of the first game’s issues make a not-so-welcome return as well.There’s no other strategy game quite like Valkyria Chronicles, and describing its mishmash of genres can sound like someone took a few throws at a dart board covered in game types and hoped it would all work out. It’s a JRPG set in a colorful alternate-reality World War 2, with deep turn-based tactical battles where units are controlled with semi-realtime, third-person shooter combat. Like I said, extremely weird on paper, but it works extraordinarily well in practice.Put more simply, Valkyria Chronicles 4 feels like a tactics anime. There’s a huge focus on the story being told in the campaign, which is enjoyable for the most part over the roughly 40 hours it took me to conquer it. Compelling (if melodramatic) visual novel-style dialogue and animated cutscenes tell the exciting story of Squad E of the Atlantic Federation fighting against the Imperial Alliance, and then those fights play out in tactical battles where you use Command Points to take direct control of soldiers in the field.Those battles are really what make Valkyria Chronicles so much fun. Battlefields are fairly large and often dotted with dozens of enemy units, making it a fun challenge to keep track of multiple engagements at a time. There are six different soldier classes – ranging from fast-moving Scouts to slow tank-busters called Lancers – fortified enemy bunkers to destroy, and even tanks to control, so you have a massive amount of options during any given fight.I loved surveying the battlefield at the beginning of every match, enthusiastically playing the role of commander and tactician as I plotted out my strategies and attack routes. As with any good tactical puzzle, it rewards you for thinking ahead multiple turns and punishes you – severely – for not considering how your opponent might counter-attack once it’s their turn to move.I was overjoyed to see Valkyria Chronicles 4 return to the sprawling maps of the first game, as opposed to the smaller, interlinked areas of the second. This entry really seems to recognize what made the first so special, and I appreciated that as a long-time fan. It maybe could have been a bit more ambitious with its additions, but just about everything that has been added or changed is undoubtedly an improvement.Most notably, Valkyria Chronicles 4 didn’t just bring back the original five classes, it added a brand new one: the Grenadier. Grenadiers allow you to drop long-range explosions on enemy units, and they are a ton of fun to command because they open up new strategies that simply weren’t available in previous games. For example, you can blindly fire guess shots to test if areas behind by buildings or hills are hiding enemies, and that proves to be true often enough that Grenadiers quickly became a staple of my squad.I also found that their presence alone got me to use my Engineer units significantly more than in the first game. Engineers are essentially weaker versions of Scouts that can repair tanks and refill ammo, so pairing one with a Grenadier meant I could constantly top off their mortar ammo and fire significantly more rounds in a turn.That strategy was fun to discover and refine, but it’s borderline game-breakingly powerful: once I unlocked a new type of mortar for my Grenadiers that deals extra damage to tanks, their extended range and ability to hit a tank’s weak spot without having to walk behind it essentially made my Lancer units obsolete. I even managed to win a huge, climactic boss fight against a stronger tank enemy toward the end of the campaign with a single grenadier in a single turn, just by walking into range and repeatedly pelting its radiator with bombs.Cheap strategies like this aren’t a new problem for Valkyria Chronicles, though some of the old exploits have actually been counteracted somewhat – for example, Scouts can still be used to rush through a mission by quickly capturing camps, but the mission objectives and level layouts this time around mean that’s not always how you’re going to win. But the fact that exploitative strategies like this still exist at all is indicative of some the series’ problems that Valkyria Chronicles 4 has brought along with it.It’s disappointing to see a handful of quality-of-life issues persist 10 years after they annoyed me the first time. Things like my tanks getting caught on the invisible edges of terrain and causing me to waste precious movement points, or the Headquarters – where you level-up classes, buy new weapons, and learn new special buffs called orders – failing to notify you when new upgrades or orders are available, forcing you to click through every single menu after every chapter to check for new stuff.These are by no means deal breakers, and they ultimately didn’t distract me too much, but seeing these old problems again made me wish Valkyria Chronicles 4 hadn’t played it quite as safe in returning to the old ways. Hearing the same sound effects and even most of the same battle music as the first game (as great as they all are) prevents it from having its own distinct voice, and trudging through those clunky old menu layouts is a wrong turn on a trip down memory lane.Another thing that’s stayed the same is the uneven balance between story and combat. Fights can last anywhere from 20 minutes to an hour, which are short enough that they aren’t daunting but still long enough that the really epic fights truly feel it. But in between those fights, you usually watch between five and 25 minutes of story cutscenes, which can be a bit much. You’re basically alternating between commanding a fight and watching a full episode of an anime that’s fairly melodramatic in a way that’s sure to be familiar to anime fans, which I was okay with once I knew to expect that pattern.Valkyria Chronicles 4 takes place at the same time as Valkyria Chronicles 1 and 3, but from a completely different perspective in the war, so you don’t need to have played the others to jump into this one. It half-heartedly tries to root its characters in Gallia (the neutral country that the other games take place in) by making the main characters of your squad in the Federation army be from there, but doesn’t significantly tie Gallia into the story after that. As a result, the plot mostly misses an opportunity and feels disconnected from the greater story of the series.That said, what unfolds is a good war story full of love, loss, and lots of other well-serviced WW2 tropes, but it’s just not an overly personal one. While the first game was all about Gallia’s citizens thrown into a war to repel the evil empire and take back their homeland, this one is about Gallians fighting in the Federation because the Empire are the baddies.It’s a more straightforward war story on the surface (attack the enemy, win the war) but one that seemed a bit muddled for me in the context of the other games. While the Empire is unquestionably evil, the first two Valkyria Chronicles games establish that the Federation you’re now fighting for isn’t really the good guy either – a point that is addressed in Valkyria Chronicles 4, but in a way that still ultimately portrays them as the good guys.This sort of thing won’t matter to someone just jumping into the series for the first time because the story still does a good job of making you question the nuances good and evil in war, but it was still weird for me to control Gallians who seemed so invested in the Federation while knowing how poorly the federation has treated Gallia – or rather, is treating it right now, since the first and fourth stories are happening simultaneously – in other games. It’s also a little frustrating that the whole mission you’re on in Valkyria Chronicles 4 is supposedly an “untold” secret story from the war, which keeps it conveniently but disappointingly at an arm's length from the events we’ve played through previously.While I eventually became very invested in the soldiers of Squad E, it did take awhile to get to that point. Valkyria Chronicles 4 doesn’t even really introduce its main antagonists until about halfway through the 40-hour story, and it becomes significantly more compelling once you aren’t just fighting unnamed bad guys.Across the board, that halfway-ish point feels like the moment you really see the full scope of Valkyria Chronicles 4. You get a permanent home base, a clearer objective, and access to cool new systems like being able to call in radar or artillery support. The bulk of the missions leading up to then are still extremely entertaining and challenging, but lack the more interesting and focused goal of the latter half.Another fantastic new addition that eventually unlocks is the ability to promote one of your squad members as a leader – a position otherwise reserved for important story characters. While you can only take 10 units into a given battle, you deploy them from your squad of 20 active soldiers, which are in turn chosen from a larger pool of around 30.The first Valkyria Chronicles impressed me with how it gave each and every one of these squad members a backstory of their own, including which other soldiers they’re friends with, even if you never cared about them because you were using someone else. Leveling is done by class, not character, which leaves you free to swap out or focus on whichever characters you want, and most of my decisions were based on how much I liked their personalities, not their stats.But Valkyria Chronicles 4 takes that idea and runs miles farther with it. Characters don’t just have backstory now, they have actual story, too. Squad members will show up in cutscenes alongside main characters, and every one of them has a side mission that only unlocks if you use them frequently. Those stories both tell you more about their past and grow them as a person, buffing them up with a new ability in the process.Of course, that’s only if you don’t get them killed on the battlefield. Permadeath is easy enough to plan for and avoid as you’re given time to rescue characters who get knocked out, but it adds a very real threat hanging over these characters I grew to love. If they die, you don’t get those cutscenes or side missions, and you don’t get that personality back.Without spoiling anything specific, there was even a moment where my stomach was tied in knots as I was asked to pick a soldier for a special mission they might not come back from. I literally had to put my controller down and take a moment to breath before deciding – and it was made even more impactful because every single squad member has unique VO specifically for if you pick them for this mission, with reactions ranging from brave pride to utter fear. It was an extremely powerful touch.The characters are generally over-the-top and anime, but still relatable enough for me to get attached. Probably my favorite soldier was a Scout named Millenia Hudson, a shy women who joined the war to find her MIA husband, and whose journey got me genuinely teary. There are also quirky characters that just made me smile, like a Shocktrooper named Ferrier who always wore a mysterious iron helmet with blonde pigtails sticking out of it, or an Engineer name Aulard who is obsessed with tanks to a hilarious degree.Valkyria Chronicles 4 reuses the first game’s idea of framing the whole campaign as a book being read after the war, which is the big inspiration behind its gorgeous art. Everything looks like a watercolor painting, and the edges of the screen fade out into rougher line drawings. The tactical map looks like an actual battlefield map, and zooming into its vibrant landscapes is still a great way to sell the idea that you are both commander and soldier. It is a little disappointing, however, that roughly two-thirds of its missions take place in the snow – these scenes are still lovely and creatively varied, but the constant greys and blues made me eventually miss the earlier levels’ vibrant colors.That stylized art also means Valkyria Chronicles 4 looks fantastic on any system you choose. I played through the full game on Switch and only noticed some occasional blocky shadows and a few framerate slowdowns in particle-heavy sections. It runs smoother and at higher resolutions (though still 30 FPS) on PS4 and Xbox One, and has an uncapped frame rate and resolution on PC, though very limited graphical options. The mouse and keyboard controls work well too, with new tank controls that fix the touchyness present in the PC port of the original.
Undertale Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/18/undertale-review|Update: Undertale is now available for Nintendo Switch. The game is identical visually and content-wise, except for some minor tweaks over the 2017 PlayStation 4 release (and the original 2015 Windows/OSX version). Most notably, the Switch version adds a new miniboss encounter not found in the previous versions. Our original review from August 15, 2017 follows.Note: the review contains some small spoilers for Undertale.I finished my first playthrough of Undertale in stunned silence. My journey had begun with dumb puns and silly puzzles, but the end affected me in a way I never expected. That’s kind of Undertale’s specialty — playing with our expectations of what an RPG should be, subverting them, and using them to drive a story unique to what games can do. Its strong writing, integration of gameplay with storytelling, and acute understanding of its audience all build to something that surprises at every turn.As a lone human fallen into an underground world that serves as a prison for monsters, I had my journey laid out for me, as most RPG protagonists do. For my first playthrough I took a pacifist approach, being as kind and merciful as possible as I searched for a way back to the surface. But I made a mistake: I accidentally killed a monster in the beginning. So I restarted without saving, as I would in any other game when I needed a do-over. Except… things were different this time. Dialogue had changed to reflect that I’d seen her die. Then Flowey, Undertale’s chaotic evil, fourth wall-breaking flower, tore into me for having the gall to abuse the power of the save state.Undertale expected me to have played RPGs before and played with those conventions in unexpected ways. That first berating from Flowey shaped the rest of my experience — I learned I couldn’t bank on a soft reset, so I had to tread carefully. Everything I did mattered. That clever manipulation of gameplay mechanics adds weight to a story that couldn’t have been told in any other way or medium. Undertale has to be a game, and that’s the key to its brilliance.Its dodging-based combat minigames especially rely on that concept. Boss battles consistently subverted my expectations, even after I thought I’d figured everything out, but even run-of-the-mill random encounters are closely intertwined with storytelling and worldbuilding. Every enemy has a unique personality expressed both through combat and non-combative options. In my pacifist run I ended up talking to a lot of monsters, giving out hugs, and even (and especially) flirting with them to avoid killing them. In order to spare a monster that wanted to flirt but didn’t want to admit it, I had to “get close but not too close.” That option changed the rules of combat so that I had to narrowly dodge incoming projectiles… until the monster blushed so much that it stopped fighting.There are tons of jokes that appeal to internet nerds, and I often felt like Undertale was talking directly to me, like it knew what I was thinking. An anime-loving character’s “selfie,” for example, is actually a picture of a garbage can with pink sparkle filters over it (and speaking from experience, this is very accurate). I especially love Undertale’s humor when it has something to say, however subtle. I entered a snail race (called Thundersnail) and was told to press Z repeatedly to encourage my snail to win. I spammed Z until she burst into flames, and the Thundersnail organizer told me that “all that pressure to succeed really got to her.” It was, like many of Undertale’s one-off jokes, extremely relatable — and knowing and predicting its audience is one of Undertale’s biggest strengths.Undertale’s writing is consistently funny, but it can also be touching. Small, semi-hidden notes and dialogue enrich the world and build on an already compelling story of humanity and morality. A favorite was a series of “echo flowers” in a beautiful, ethereal hallway that repeated snippets of an overhead conversation. A monster didn’t want to share her greatest wish — that one day she would climb the mountain that traps all the monsters underground and look out at the world — for fear of being laughed at, and although her friend promised they wouldn’t, the friend ended up laughing anyway. It was silly, until the last flower repeated: “Sorry, it’s just funny… That’s my wish too.”Experiencing the depth of the monsters’ hopes and dreams is crucial to Undertale’s exploration of morality, personhood, and conflict. Different monsters talk about each other in front of you, so once I met them I got to discover who they actually were, as opposed to what their reputations suggested. Most of the main characters are also very well developed with consistent personalities across different dialogue and story routes. It made it hard for me to summon the aggression to attack any of them — and that’s precisely the point. When I was trying to go for a more violent run, fighting monsters I’d once flirted with made Undertale’s message about humanity hit even harder.Some fights can be frustrating or even tedious, however, at least at first. In a violent playthrough, I had to grind quite a bit to meet certain story requirements and grew tired of it after a while. Fighting enemy after enemy replaced the puzzles in the peaceful runs, however, and the tradeoff felt very balanced and ultimately meaningful to the story. I also found myself trudging back through areas I had already cleared just so I could beat a boss or get an item, and while it was absolutely worth it in the end, I wasn't terribly excited to do it. At one point I had run out of gold and needed to buy healing items, and the only shop that would buy items off of me was about a 10 minute walk away. (The other shopkeepers don't buy items because they don't want your trash.)That said, I don't regret any of the extra time I spent walking around, because I got to find things like Thundersnail and the echo flowers. It's the little details that make Undertale so special, and I wanted to see them all. Every one of them feels deliberate — long sections of dialogue at the beginning and certain fights can be slow, but they are necessary for establishing the characters in a way that only games can do. In a different run, underwhelming boss battles turn mournful because of what one-hit KOs imply in the world. It was Undertale's ongoing, well-woven theme of determination that kept me playing and replaying.
Monster Hunter Generations Ultimate Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/28/monster-hunter-generations-ultimate-review|Monster Hunter Generations arrived in 2016 on Nintendo 3DS, compiling memorable monsters and areas from the series into one, mammoth package. Here’s what we thought at the time:“Monster Hunter Generations hits the core tenets of what makes this series great. Great gear drives the lust for the hunt even on the small scale, but the big, spectacular fights ultimately matter the most. Generations’ tweaked combat adds just the right tools to make slaying epic boss monsters a fun activity that’s just as fun online or off. Playable companions help shake up the gathering game without taking away resources, and its fun to play as a wackier character. Generations only falters during slower moments spent on fetch quests and in wrangling through menus before the hunt.”Two years later, the beefed-up Monster Hunter Generations Ultimate has arrived on the Nintendo Switch. Capcom has made a habit out of releasing “Ultimate” versions of each Monster Hunter game, and this one certainly lives up to the name in terms of content. Generations Ultimate has a series-most 93 large monsters -- 20 more than the original Generations -- and a few of those, such as the Elder Dragon Valstrax, are entirely new to the series. And with more monsters comes more quests, including the more difficult G-Rank endgame quests.I’ve mostly enjoyed my 60-hour (and counting) tour through the history of the franchise pre-Monster Hunter: World, just as I did on the 3DS. However, World's arrival has loomed large this time around, as it refined both the core gameplay and presentation of the series. It’s hard not to think about the streamlined upgrades system in World as I fumble through menu after menu comparing the armor I’m already wearing to new options I could make. It’s difficult to return to the zoned maps separated by loading screens after becoming accustomed to World’s seamless environments. I keep forgetting I won’t see any scout flies to help guide me to my prey, and I sorely miss the days of consuming potions while still moving and not having to remember to pack pickaxes for my hunts.While it may be unfair to knock Generations Ultimate for its now-outdated presentation -- after all, it released in Japan as Monster Hunter XX before World -- it was impossible for me to play Generations Ultimate and view it as anything other than somewhat of a relic of a franchise that has since evolved to become bolder and better.Fortunately, when you’re in the thick of a hunt, it’s still a pulse-racing experience of risk and reward, one that truly makes each victory feel like a hard-earned feat. Slashing away at the scale-covered exterior of the fire-breathing Rathalos is as satisfying as ever. Staring up at Gammoth, a woolly mammoth on steroids, is a sight to behold -- and toppling its gigantic frame into the snow is an even grander spectacle. Watching in amazement (and fear) as the Valstrax zips into the stratosphere and screeches back to the ground like a rocket ready to explode gives Generations Ultimate a signature moment of is own. All told, it would take more than 100 hours to even see all of the monsters on display here. It’s simply brimming with content.Although there is a lot to see in Monster Hunter Generations Ultimate, the progression system forces you to retread the same areas and fight the same monsters over and over. Like the other entries before World, single player and multiplayer are separated from one another, and you must play solo to unlock new items, movesets, and towns. You wind up replaying hunts multiple times across each mode, which feels less than ideal when there are 93 different monsters waiting to be fought. Adding onto the tedious progression system, advancing through the ranks in each mode requires you to complete a handful of key quests, but there are no hints as to which quests in the multi-page list do the trick. You’re forced to either look up the information or play every single quest, including the boring fetch quests (some of which are required anyway).As always, Monster Hunter is better with friends. Reaching the grueling G-Rank, which features most of the new quests not seen in Generations, calls for the help of another hunter or three. I arrived on the airship housing G-Rank quests at around the 55 hour mark, though I mostly only played the key quests to get there. While High Rank monsters often test your skill already, even the early G-Rank versions of monsters significantly up the difficulty. Valstrax, who only appears in G-Rank, is easily one of my favorite monsters in the series. His attacks are absolutely ridiculous. His wings shoot missiles and even turn into jet engines to charge towards you.Generations Ultimate doesn’t support in-game voice chat and doesn't use the official Nintendo mobile voice app, so you’re forced to use a third party voice chat app to get the best experience, and that's only an option when playing with friends you can coordinate with. You can also use a set of modifiable messages to inform your teammates of certain actions, or write custom messages on the fly. So far, I haven’t experienced any connection issues, lag, or any other problems with the multiplayer systems pre-launch, and joining parties with my Switch friends has been easy enough.For those who didn’t play Generations on 3DS, there’s a meaningful and fun mechanical change unique to franchise: Hunter Styles and Arts. You can choose from a number of Styles that modify your attacks and give you new abilities, and picking a Style is about as important as picking a main weapon. For instance, you can go the traditional route and choose Guild Style, become a counter-attack master with Adept Style, or pick the decidedly weird Alchemy Style, which lets you conjure useful items from a barrel. My personal favorite, Aerial Style, turns your dodge into a jump, which then lets you mount monsters no matter the weapon you’re using.Hunter Arts go hand-in-hand with Styles. They are special attacks that charge throughout a quest, tying into both your weapon and Style and capping off the retooled combat system with an exciting twist. Arts range from defensive maneuvers like an invulnerable dodge to intricate attack strings and temporary buffs, and require you to unleash them at opportune moments. Generations Ultimate adds two new Hunter Styles and new Arts for each weapon to the base game.Hunter Styles undercut the rigid play styles of each of the 14 weapons slightly, but that’s actually what I like about them. You don’t need to be a master of the Insect Glaive or a Bow guru to perform mounted attacks regularly; you have the freedom to pick your weapon while not sacrificing the cool aspects that other weapons bring to the table. Speaking of Bows and projectile weapons in general, I still found them to be mostly unplayable here. World nailed the controls of third-person shooting to make the Light Bowgun my favorite weapon, but Generations Ultimate still uses the cumbersome controls -- no shooting while moving -- seen in earlier games.Even though Monster Hunter has thrived on 3DS with a handful of titles, the size of the monsters and sheer scope of the concept has always felt like it belonged on a big stage. On Switch, the visuals are crisper, though don’t expect the level of detail seen in World. This is clearly a slightly improved port that also happens to look better simply by running on stronger hardware. It is also limited to 30fps in both docked and handheld mode. Although I greatly preferred playing in docked mode with a Pro controller, it generally runs and looks the same on the go. It’s also much more comfortable to play on Switch since it drops the 3DS's touchscreen controls and largely mirrors the control style of World.Longtime fans of the series will be happy to hear that you can transfer your Generations 3DS save file to Generations Ultimate and pick up where you left off. But for those who fell for the franchise with World, it’s hard to say if it will hold your attention for the long haul. There’s definitely a lot to love, but the surrounding systems may deter some from sticking with this epic hunting collection.
The Messenger Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/28/the-messenger-review|The Messenger has a lot going for it. It’s a 2D action platformer with a gorgeous aesthetic that seamlessly goes from 8 to 16-bit, it has a hilarious sense of humor, clever dialogue, and one of the absolute best retro-themed “chiptune” soundtracks out there. There was even a period of time while playing The Messenger, once I unlocked its full suite of core abilities, when I felt this might be one of the best games I’ve played all year.But then, something happens at about the halfway point. The Messenger changes genre completely from a linear action platformer like Ninja Gaiden on the NES, to a sprawling Metroidvania. Unfortunately, it fumbles this transition, padding the back half with repetitive backtracking and boring fetch quests.Developed by Sabotage Studio, The Messenger is a tribute to NES-era action platformer games, whose influence is obvious even at a glance. There’s even a tongue-in-cheek reference to Ninja Gaiden right at the start, just to get it out of the way.The Messenger begins as a modernized take on the NES Ninja Gaiden games: Your character runs, jumps, flips, and can only swing his sword in one horizontal direction like titular ninja Ryu. But as you unlock more skills that totally change how you approach both combat and platforming, The Messenger starts to find its own identity as a much faster paced action platformer with a heavy focus on mobility and pin-point precise timing.A new gameplay mechanic at the core of The Messenger is an ability called “Cloud Stepping,” which replaces a traditional double jump with the ability gain a jump if you’re able to hit something with your sword. This leads to intense platforming challenges where enemies and their projectiles are simultaneously dangerous threats and potentially life saving points of contact for your sword. The mechanic is put to use brilliantly in the level design, making the fundamentals of The Messenger an absolute blast to play with.You’ll have to train your brain to remember to jump, strike, then jump again -- and it gets especially tricky when you need to chain multiple cloud steps in a row while also juggling a wing suit and grappling hook. But once it clicks, you absolutely feel like a ninja badass.There’s a wonderful feeling of discovery in the first half of The Messenger, as every new level introduces new challenges, upgrades, enemies, boss fights, and even new conversations with the delightful shopkeeper, who regularly regales you with entertaining stories, thought-provoking philosophy, and elaborate jokes. Every time I saw that the Shopkeeper had something new to say it felt like a reward.At the aforementioned halfway point, though, that sense of discovery evaporates. Any upgrades you find or buy from that point on are minor at best, new levels and boss fights are rare, and the shopkeeper runs out of stories. You’re left to mostly backtrack through previously-explored areas completing what feels like an endless number of fetch quests. Backtracking can be fun, but here it feels particularly boring because all of the great rewards have already been doled out.At this point you’re able to time travel 500 years into the future by moving through space-time tears, changing The Messenger from an 8-bit NES throwback to a 16-bit SNES throwback. It’s a neat gimmick, especially because every music track has both an 8-bit and 16-bit version; but the levels don’t change enough to make the backtracking any less tedious. In fact, the time travelling mechanic actually adds an extra layer of tedium, because reaching a waypoint in the wrong era means schlepping back to a rift, switching eras, and then making your way back -- without dyingAnd chances are you will die a lot in The Messenger. Checkpoints can be spaced out quite far from each other, and whenever you die, you’re not brought back at full health. Still, The Messenger finds a nice balance at being just difficult enough for the triumphs to feel appropriately rewarding.As much as a slog as the back half of The Messenger is, it’s still very much worth pushing through, not only because some of the last few stages are phenomenal, but also because the story is surprisingly deep. What begins as a simple plot involving your character carrying a scroll from one end of the island to another evolves into a grand conflict full of rich and interesting backstory, memorable characters, and some really clever subversions of expectations.
InnerSpace Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/25/innerspace-review|Have you ever wondered what the inside of a marble looks like? Well, piloting a craft through InnerSpace’s universe made me feel like I was flying inside one — then another, and another — with a handful of different gorgeous worlds waiting to be explored. But actually sailing through these dream-like skies never reached the heights I wanted it to because of annoying controls and obtuse objectives.In fact, InnerSpace has a rough takeoff with a boring and bland tutorial. Getting to grips with your vehicle – called an airframe – happens in an ugly, monochrome room that’s in stark and weird contrast with so much beauty elsewhere. Overall, everything is pretty straightforward this early on, with the sticks maneuvering the vehicle and the shoulder buttons used for drifting and diving into water.Once you’re acquainted with these flight controls, InnerSpace shows off its stylishness in the Sunchamber. It’s almost like floating through an impressionist painting, and it’s here that you learn about how Ancients once resided in these surreal and striking environments. Searching for their relics propels the story forward, with demigods and wind playing vital roles as well.There’s a pretty chill vibe in the Sunchamber, which also acts as InnerSpace’s hub world. The great music adds to the effect, and I found myself relaxed as I collected white wind orbs and solved simple environmental puzzles like knocking down levers. “So far, so good,” I thought, as this might serve as a wonderful way to unwind from the high-stakes tension of Dead Cells and Fortnite.However, this changed as I arrived in Mornsea, a world subdued in shades of purple and blue. The main objective here sees you chasing after birds at higher speeds and with more maneuvering through obstacles than we’ve seen before. The sequence also revealed how finicky the controls can be in InnerSpace, especially with a drift that glides too much for my liking. You don’t curve or veer off your course – instead, drifting means you continue moving in your current direction before choosing a new angle. Keep in mind that new angle can literally be up, down, left, right, and anywhere between. Plus, the drift boosts your craft immediately afterward. This might be beneficial for speeding across the skies, but it’s not helpful when you’re attempting to alter directions in a narrow corridor.Destroying your craft by running into surfaces doesn’t result in any big consequences, other than possibly restarting your chase, which is just irritating. So what I thought was a laid-back experience became a bit more stressful.There’s nothing wrong with subverting the expectations of an Abzu or Journey-like game, but InnerSpace just doesn’t handle well enough for entertaining, twitch-based interactions. There is a Hopper craft that’s unlockable — and highly recommended — that literally lets you pause when drifting. This completely stops you in your tracks before picking a new direction before blasting back off. And it’s a godsend.So the Hopper alleviates some of the frustration with its traits, while others aggravate them. The Zephyr Spark is the Sonic the Hedgehog of InnerSpace in that it’s all about going fast. I wanted nothing to do with this craft – sure, it’s probably the preferred choice for chases, but not what I was looking for on my aerial cruises. I also unlocked a Piano model, but honestly, going at a turtle’s pace was my main requirement.The next issue that arises after the controls is the confusing layout of levels. These worlds see you going upside down, barrel rolling, darting through tunnels, and more. There’s no map, so it’s up to you to keep your bearings, and that’s not always easy and can lead to getting stuck in places. For instance, I kept missing a small passageway in the chamber Eventide, but my persistence finally paid off. Getting lost just comes with the territory in this three- to five-hour journey.Which, once again, is fine and could even be rewarding under the right circumstances. Yet InnerSpace never tickled my brain enough with puzzles or made me feel clever in my discoveries with subtle level design. Exploration is key, sure, but the puzzles never lead to memorable “Ah-ha!” moments. And the story can’t pick up the weight either.I loved the theme of the wind, how it carries our memories and needs movement for life. This also connects to conversations about the past and the future. My investment trailed off there, though, as the dialogue never quite peaked past average.The same can’t be said for the mesmerizing settings where you take flight in InnerSpace. There’s such a wonderful otherworld atmosphere throughout. Seeing each new level served as solid motivation on my journey, even if the story didn’t. I liked spending time in these weird and hypnotizing areas, especially with the accompaniment of an enjoyable electronic soundtrack. Seriously, I can see myself listening to this while making breakfast or writing in the future.
Nintendo Labo Variety Kit Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/24/nintendo-labo-variety-kit-review|Constructing a miniature cardboard piano that plays a melodic range of cat meows and old man moans is a long but ultimately enjoyable undertaking. Most of the five cardboard toys in the Nintendo Labo Variety Kit result in this same feeling. The process of following Labo’s step-by-step instructions, which can descend into tedium at times, is saved by the final product: wonderfully weird playthings and the option of more creative tinkering. It’s classic Nintendo silliness with a delightfully crafty feel.This kit includes five main projects (a pair of RC Cars, a fishing rod, a house, a motorbike, and a piano) to build and decorate, along with a few standalone odds and ends for personal experimenting. Five projects may not seem like much, but when you first open the box you may be legitimately surprised by the amount of cardboard sheets and other materials it takes to build every toy.Customizing a project further is something that Labo leaves up to you. None of the cardboard used is particularly eye-catching, so drawing on some flame decals or sloppily gluing googly eyes to your new handiwork is completely on your own terms. Making a piano can be rewarding, but personalizing it with a few of your own sparkly dinosaur stickers (as I did) can really take your musical career to a whole new level.Once you’ve constructed a project, or Labo is at least convinced you have, the option to “Play” with that project is unlocked, and that’s where the Variety Kit begins to feel like a showcase of all the creative potential housed within the Switch’s portable screen and its small but mighty Joy-Con. Each project is tied to a simple game or activity for you to play around in. The motorbike drives with motion controls, the fishing rod reels in fish, and the RC cars (which are more like giant RC bugs) shuffle violently around via the HD rumble. How much time you’ll want to spend interacting with each individual toy is based solely on how interesting you find its themed game and how inclined you are to explore.The house, one of the largest, strangest, and most time-consuming projects, was the biggest disappointment. Playing with it simply revolves around inserting and removing different plug-ins into its walls and floor, as a small furry creature goes about its day on the Switch’s screen. Plug in a faucet handle and you can fill the living room with water. Plug in a crank and the creature will hop on a treadmill. There’s no obvious goal or end point to these adorable shenanigans, but I soon found that certain actions led to my creature finding small pieces of candy hidden in each room. It wasn’t something Labo had told me to search out, but this small thrill of discovery I had made was something that I would experience multiple times as I poked around each toys gamespace. Unfortunately for those exploring the house toy, it’s just not enough to warrant much replay.The best part of Labo’s Play sessions is enhanced and expanded in its Discover section. Discover features the kid-friendly explanations behind how every toy really works via faux online chats with Labo characters Professor Gerry, Lerna, and Plaise. It’s cute, and a great way to give you a better understanding as to how the tech inside your Joy-Con and Switch bring the Labo toys to life in their own wacky ways.Discover is also where one can come to build the Variety Kit’s extra bits and bobs. Little cardboard figures and quickly constructed doodads can be found in every corner, giving you a small taste of what Labo is truly capable of producing. One of my favorite examples is the Toy-Con scanner, a miniature gun that uses the right Joy-Con’s infrared sensor (which I’m sure many didn’t know existed) to map the depth of real-world objects and turn them into motocross terrain. By simply pointing it at my keyboard or an old GameCube controller I could create a brand-new arena of valleys and ramps to race around. To build an actual race track, Labo had me insert the left Joy-Con into a miniature cardboard motorbike and drive it through the air at different heights. The motion sensors captured the movements and in no time a radical new race track had been born.
Little Dragons Cafe Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/24/little-dragons-cafe-review|I’ve been up until 5 a.m. for three nights in a row, trapped in a loop of fishing for eels, exploring the forest, and feeding my (hopefully) harmless dragon heaps of food in an effort to turn him blue. This is all, ostensibly, in the interest of running a café and saving my mother. The details are hazy. But even when the controls get in the way and the repetition sets in, I’m still enjoying my time as a lost boy.Instead of forcing anxiety-inducing decisions each day, like deciding between wooing romantic partners or mining in caves, your job is to simply collect ingredients and improving the café’s menu. There are no tools to upgrade or festivals to attend. Learning recipes, the crux of the progression system, is done through straightforward exploration of new areas or talking to the employees. To cook a new recipe you play a short but actually fairly difficult rhythm-based mini-game. Using the best ingredients—and nailing the timing—raises your bed-and-breakfast’s reputation, and that means more guests – which is apparently good, for some unspecified reason.No matter how many ingredients you collect or “Supreme” dishes you cook, the plot progresses at its own pace. If you’re trying to complete the story in record time, you’d be better off going to bed as soon as you’ve stocked up your kitchen and reached your story goals for the day, which has been early in my experience. When you get stuck, those goals can be helpfully checked in the menu. They range from the slightly obscure – “Check in on the café after lunch” – to the explicit: “Collect recipe fragments by talking to Rosetta and the hunter in the forest.” For the most part these hints aren’t necessary, but they’re nice to reference when you’re stuck.
The Walking Dead: The Final Season Episode 1 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/13/the-walking-dead-the-final-season-episode-one-review|Since the beginning, Telltale’s The Walking Dead has always been Clementine’s story. From her early stages as a young child under Lee’s care in season one to her current status as a budding young survivor in this fourth and final season, the entire series has largely hinged on her development in the aftermath of the apocalypse.The first episode of this final season focuses a great deal on the parallels between Clementine and Lee, taking everything he taught her and preparing to pass it on to AJ, her own young ward (who we met in season 2). While the parallels between the two situations are similar, stark differences between Clementine and AJ’s childhoods make it a more intriguing and unpredictable dynamic than that of Clementine and Lee. The premiere sets the season up for an emotionally charged and powerful arc, but heavy exposition and character building make this a slow, gradual build.The season begins with Clementine and AJ being rescued by a group of teens and children. Elements of Lord of the Flies are present in their camp, with the kids trying to create their own hierarchy by working together to find food and survive in their own designated “safe zone.” It’s intriguing in that it gives us an opportunity to meet a whole new crew of survivors, but never strays from retreading the familiar sequence of events of any other episode or story in The Walking Dead, making it a predictable and somewhat dull beginning.While Clementine’s arc is the dominant storyline in this final season, perhaps the most interesting character development of the episode belongs to AJ. From the start, it’s made clear he has a completely different frame of reference from Clementine and is not beholden to ideas of human decency and morality held by those who knew the pre-Walker world. In the opening moments, he spins the cylinder of a revolver playfully in the backseat of the car, treating the deadly weapon like a child’s toy. But as they’re integrating into the group of kids he’s initially ostracized for his violent tendencies and later must learn vital social skills to successfully interact. He doesn’t recognize toys of police officers and firefighters, and he’s unfamiliar with the meaning and purpose of art. His growing process is written from the perspective of a young boy, and while moments of delivery are clunky and paired with limited facial animations, it mostly delivers in portraying a troubled boy emotionally torn in several different directions.It’s interesting to think of AJ as the inverse of Clementine. The course of her story has seen her learning how to let go of the safe, civilized world she knew and embracing the darker sides of herself that enable her survival, while AJ needs to be introduced to the ways of the old world to function among those who want to build a new one.The result is a powerful dynamic between the two, in which Clementine attempts to teach nuance and blurred lines to a child whose personality has been shaped by stark fight-or-flight impulses. In this final series we see her story come full circle and share many parallels with Lee, the reluctant caregiver of a child the world forgot.After that introduction, the middle act of this two-hour episode is bogged down by numerous repetitive and drawn-out interactions. Extended conversation sequences provide necessary exposition detailing the backstory of the kids in the school, but often meander needlessly and deliver repeated information. Even in cases where gameplay elements like fishing or playing cards add activity to the dialogue-driven gameplay, these interactions often serve as speed bumps and slow the momentum of the story in a way that becomes frustrating. It’s the combination of this oversized info dump and the obligation to check in with a needless surplus of characters that becomes the biggest detracting factor.However, when it breaks out of that rut it does so with gusto by staying true to The Walking Dead’s brutal and unforgiving style and forcing characters into painful situations. Throughout episode one we see violent outbursts leading to deaths, desperate actions taken on the part of survivors both inside and outside of the school, Clementine repeatedly defending AJ’s violent nature, and that Lord of the Flies-style arc that drives home the central theme of children being forced to adjust to a world they’re not yet ready to navigate.Combat is mainly made up of quick-time events and basic button prompts offering different actions, usually between stunning or brutally killing an opponent. Some of these encounters had odd timing that felt off-rhythm and sometimes resulted in unfair-feeling deaths, but the moments of successfully burying a blade in a zombie’s head never lost its satisfaction.Much of the interactivity within the episode is focused on building relationships with characters, exploring the environment, and collecting items to later aid in progressing storylines. Some areas of the map open up to allow Clementine to move more freely, but much of it retains the same hyper-focused linearity with branching options the series (and Telltale’s expansive catalog as a whole) has long clung to. It does reduce the scale of the world, but allows the story to take a more centralized role at the forefront of the episode.A majority of the opportunities for choice in this episode hinge on character interactions and shaping relationships with the other kids in the school, with the usual notifications popping up to indicate that characters will remember key events or that your relationship with them has changed in some particular way. However, because this is the first episode, I didn’t get the sense that these actions and decisions will be built upon in significant ways in later installments, which ultimately leads to a lack of payoff for much of your work.
Flipping Death Review: A Not so Grim Reaper|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/08/flipping-death-review|What happens when Death goes on vacation? Well, in Flipping Death he mistakenly leaves the job to a recently deceased woman named Penny, who learns she can help restless spirits with their unfinished business by jumping between the land of the dead and the land of the living. It’s a cool premise, and executed very much like a more action-centric spiritual successor to the point-and-click adventure comedies of classic LucasArts. Flipping Death’s vibrant presentation, quirky characters and fun plot ensured I was in for the whole ride, even if the gameplay felt a bit haphazard at times.Anyone who played developer Zoink Games’ excellent Stick it to the Man! from 2013 will be right at home here. Flipping Death has a similar emphasis on getting inside people’s heads and solving scenarios using suitably bizarre lines of logic, but this time around you’re physically possessing them to help you do it. Need something poked? There’s a guy for that. Need to open a can of paint? Maybe that drill-wielding dentist can help. Want to crap on the heads of every character in the level just for the fun of it? Take control of the seagull. It’s a fun take on the traditional inventory and item systems.From the murky, mysterious world of the dead, living characters who can be possessed – be they human, mermaid, cat, etc. – appear as highlighted silhouettes, but once you’re inside them the entire map flips to a mirror version of itself, revealing quaint streets, ramshackle buildings and literally fleshed out characters. It’s a cool transition – if a little disorientating, as landmarks to the left are now to the right and vice versa – and you’ll hop back and forth a lot. There are significant differences, too – platforms and paths in one world often don’t exist in the other. And while Penny can use her reaper’s scythe like a grappling hook to leap around in death, she’s bound to the movement abilities of her hosts in life. It’s interesting to use the two movement systems together to solve puzzles and find the path forward. I also love how everyday objects like houses and cars are transformed into beastly creatures when in the spirit world.Like any classic point-and-click adventure, Flipping Death’s design is built around finding the right tools to solve the zany problems its characters throw at you. These are often quite surreal, but I was never really frustrated; particularly as a small amount of trial and error always got me to the correct solution. I actually found the main obstacles to completing puzzles were mechanical in nature, due to the slightly sluggish feel to platforming and occasionally finicky positioning required, leaving me wondering whether I was doing the right thing or not. Thankfully, there’s an image-based hint system that you can always fall back on should you need to.The solutions are creative and fun, but they’re largely a means to an end – an excuse for the comedic sensibility that ultimately drives Flipping Death and makes it worthwhile despite its minor foibles. Writer Ryan North has taken full advantage of the characters and scenarios, and there’s plenty of amusing dialogue to savour. One highlight is the hilarious interactive flashback to “history times” which serves to provide backstory and introduce ye olde versions of many of the characters. I also loved hearing Penny strike up a conversation with each character she spirit-jumps into; some think she’s their conscience, or god, or creeping dementia. One particularly lonely crab was simply stoked to have some company.Penny herself is a likeable lead who has a lot of fun with the bizarre predicament she finds herself in, and her broader story anchors Flipping Death – it’s pure absurdity, but nonetheless has some heart. It also helps to have a relatable character in amongst the chainsaw-obsessed mermaids, British serial killers and police officers who become elite hackers in their sleep. I also really enjoyed the grizzled old narrator who pops up on the loading screens to recap events, provide irreverent flavour, and routinely break the fourth wall. He’s well-acted, as are most of the characters.Flipping Death’s story clocks in at around six or seven hours, which is about what I want from a game like this. Most of the chapters are set across the same basic map with a handful of changes to keep things interesting. A little more variety wouldn’t have gone astray, but ultimately, it’s the characters that drive the experience, and the overall visual design is great – this pop-up picture book fever dream world really is gorgeous. One minor downside of the map is that you can sometimes circumvent the logical order of events, so you’ll ask a character to help you with something that hasn’t been set up yet, but that only happened a handful of times in my playthrough.
Overcooked 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/07/overcooked-2-review|I’m relieved to announce that the time my wife and I spent together in Overcooked 2’s increasingly chaotic and always amusing kitchens has not resulted in divorce. It has, in fact, been great fun.Sometimes, though, the volume of items on screen can move from hard to manage to disorienting. If you have a full countertop of ingredients, picking up the right item can be a challenge. Depth perception is a bit of problem, too, as it’s easy to pick up the next item over rather than the one you wanted. With that in mind, one small change I really appreciated was that food can be placed on freshly washed stacks of dishes. Not having to move the plate to an open countertop first, as you did in the original, goes a surprisingly long way to freeing up counter space and keeping things reasonably orderly.I personally think the ratio of strategy to pandemonium is at its best when Overcooked 2 is played with two players. You have enough room to work with to stick to your carefully laid-out plan, and even when things get dicey it’s easier to communicate with one solid teammate to get back on track. The burden of success is solely on you in solo play, which can feel both rewarding and daunting. But with all of the moving parts and the new throw ability, Overcooked 2 gets out of control in the best way with three to four chefs just trying to work together.With 10 hours of the campaign under our belt, I still have more than a handful of stages left to three-star and a few of the 25 chefs left to unlock. Outside of saving the Onion Kingdom from the Unbread, you can replay unlocked stages in arcade or test your skills in versus battles. Versus kitchens have the same general amenities as the campaign kitchens and take advantage of the increased chaos. In one especially chaotic match, I actually accidentally scored all of my points for my wife’s team because I failed to realize the order counters swapped spots constantly.
Salt and Sanctuary: Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/01/salt-and-sanctuary-review|Editor's Note: Salt and Sanctuary was originally released in 2016 for PS4, Vita, and PC. With the release of the Switch version, we decided to dive back into the sanctuary and update our review for Nintendo's hybrid console.Forget about mages and warriors—in an RPG with a name like Salt and Sanctuary, I figured it was only appropriate to save the world as a chef. It's one of the eight starting classes, after all, and thus, clad in apron and armed with a three-foot iron pot and a handful of potatoes, I left the sanctuary of my galley to slay the pirates stealing our princess from our ship and murdering my crewmen. Larry never brained Curly with such vigor. Gordon Ramsay never unleashed such spite.At last I made it to the deck, where I faced off with what looked like Cthulhu himself. I tossed a potato at him. He killed me in two hits. At last, I awoke on a far shore. Sound a little like Dark Souls? It's no accident. Salt and Sanctuary pulls liberally from From Software's series for this 2D adventure. In less capable hands, it might have devolved into parody, but instead Salt and Sanctuary establishes itself as a lovingly crafted reimagining that usually succeeds in capturing the spirit of From Software's adventures in a format that initially seems incompatible with it.Remarkably, this kinship extends to the combat as well. Though the action has shifted to profile view, the core abilities remain the same, although mapped a little differently by default when played with a gamepad. Light attacks and strong attacks, blocks and rolls, charged attacks and shifts to hold a one-handed weapon in two hands—all share time in the spotlight here. The brawling itself is never quite as demanding as it is in the games that inspired it, but neither does it ever devolve into mindless hacking and slashing.That's a common theme. Whenever Salt and Sanctuary elects to let go of Miyazaki's hand, it runs the danger of losing its way. When the time finally came for me to put aside my pot and apron and become the greatsword-swinging warrior I suppose I was born to be, for instance, the transition wasn't quite as fluid as it might have been in Dark Souls on account of a sprawling skill tree in the style of Path of Exile and Final Fantasy 10. Its interconnected paths offer a great deal of choice as to whether I want to specialize in weapons like spears or axes, sure, but it's not quite the same thing as freedom. Even its massive, Castlevania-style labyrinth filled with castles, swamps, and inky black dungeons can get a little out of hand, as I eventually found myself struggling to find my way after unlocking multiple shortcuts and combing ever further into the depths.Salt and Sanctuary's stabs at originality do hit the mark in the titular sanctuaries, even if they, too, are essentially riffs on Dark Souls' bonfires. These are the places where you'll refill your flasks and regain health (and reset enemies, naturally), but they're also instanced hideouts where you can drop off totems that conjure NPCs like blacksmiths and the mercenary that serves as as the avatar for your couch co-op buddy. It's a smart system that captures Souls' emphasis on risk and reward, as you'll need to think about where to place these guys so you're not continually running to an inconvenient spot to find the artisan who can craft the sword you want.Releasing back in 2016, Salt and Sanctuary helped set the standard for the “Souls-like” sub-genre of games that derive their core mechanics from From Software’s Souls series.The same holds true for the Switch version. While it is a straight port with no new features added, it makes the jump to Switch without any sacrifices; running at a smooth 60 FPS, with only slight and infrequent dips in certain spots. Salt and Sanctuary on Switch provides the same brutal, yet satisfying challenge that helped make it one of the best indie games released in 2016.One relatively minor complaint about the Switch port is the fact that the game is naturally very dark, with many enemies that blend in with the backgrounds. While playing in handheld mode with less than ideal lighting, enemies can often end up being harder to see than they were initially designed to be.It’s a small price to pay though for the ability to play on the go, and Salt and Sanctuary on the Switch remains every bit as good as it is on other platforms.- Mitchell Saltzman
Mega Man X Legacy Collection 1 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/24/mega-man-x-legacy-collection-1-review|The Mega Man X Legacy Collection is an absolutely fantastic compilation that contains the first four Mega Man X games. The first three alone are some of the best video games ever made for the Super NES and are still coveted by fans. Mega Man X4 was a bit more divisive when initially released, but I found myself enjoying it despite the surprising evolution in the art style. I’m incredibly happy to have this well executed compilation in my library of modern consoles and available on the go.X2 holds up well, thanks to an interesting set of Mavericks to face and clever secrets to uncover. Not only are the new abilities like the shoryuken fun to use and a continuation of the Street Fighter nod seen in the original, but you can also rebuild Zero for his big cameo near the end of the campaign. The fact that there’s an overarching plot that ties it to the first Mega Man X while also adding more mini bosses and cool vehicles, like the bike, makes X2 a ton of fun even today.One of the rarest games in the X series, physical copies of X3 regularly go for surprising prices on ebay. Fans like myself may even be experiencing it for the first time because it was so hard to acquire. However, it continues the excellent gameplay loop of hidden secrets, armor pieces to find, and solving that boss order puzzle that I loved to discover the solution for. Also it should be noted that this is the Super Nintendo version and not any of the later releases.The first edition to hit the Sega Saturn and original PlayStation, Mega Man X4 I found surprisingly fun despite the drastic new look. Thanks to a smoothing feature, the graphics still look nice 20 years later. Some levels have interesting challenges, too, like Cyber Space where you need to rush through each section as fast as possible, or Military Train, in which you’ll need to smash your way through to uncover secrets or stop robots who are trying to separate the cars to slow you down.Two interesting optional modes were added to this collection, which are important because they give both beginners and pros another way to enjoy Mega Man X. Rookie Hunter mode allows you to reduce or seemingly eliminate damage to Mega Man, in case you want to pass the controller to someone unfamiliar with the series or try out some of your less than favorites without a hassle. On the opposite end of the spectrum is X Challenge Mode, where you’ll pick three unique weapons to take on a series of duo boss fights. Its challenge gives you a new way to fight against the classic enemies you remember from the series, and I loved toying with each boss pairing to figure out their overlapping patterns, and which weapon selection was to best take on each chapter.
Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker - Switch and 3DS Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/11/captain-toad-treasure-tracker-switch-and-3ds-review|In 2013, Super Mario 3D World’s ‘Adventures of Captain Toad’ challenges impressed Shigeru Miyamoto so much that he requested a full game be made out of them. Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker was released for Wii U a year later, comprising 68 intricate levels based on the Japanese tradition of hakoniwa, or miniature gardening. Here’s what we thought at the time:“Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker is one of the smartest, most charming puzzle games of 2014. I’d also call it one of the best platformers of the year, except these characters can’t jump. It speaks volumes about Treasure Tracker’s wit and environment design that it completely strips us of the mobility powers that we’ve come to expect from a game set in the Super Mario universe and still provides lots of interesting puzzle options.”Read the full Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker review.In 2018 on the Nintendo Switch and 3DS, Treasure Tracker remains a rare delight, nabbing iconography from across the core Super Mario series - characters, blocks and power-ups all function exactly as you expect them to - but recontextualising them under a single new ethos: “What if Jumpman couldn’t jump?” There’s still nothing quite like it.The Switch and 3DS versions don’t add much to the original, but they never really needed to. The Wii U’s failure means there will be a swathe of players who didn’t get a chance to play this the first time round, which makes this re-release as much an act of game preservation as it is an easy stop-gap between truly new first-party releases.Each of Treasure Tracker’s levels (not counting the bonus remix stages) is a miniature obstacle course with a Star to collect and hidden Gems to uncover, but the pleasure is in how many ways that single thread is spun into different shapes. Some levels are more like optical illusions, twisting in on themselves and asking the player to swing the camera around to find hidden doors or sneaky secrets. Others are more like Rubik’s Cubes, needing to be physically shifted into new positions to let you get around. There are minecart dashes, timed chases, battle arenas. Ideas are introduced and thrown away at crazy pace. If you ever wanted to demonstrate why people talk about Nintendo designers in hushed tones, this might not be the absolute best example, but it’s certainly the most efficient.Changes from the Wii U original are minimal, on the whole. The levels themselves are only slightly altered: on Switch, there are no platforms that require you to blow into a microphone to move, while 3DS has had the number of enemies reduced in most stages, probably to account for the drop in movement accuracy when moving from analog stick to Circle Pad.A new two-player mode on Switch is welcome, but probably won’t be of interest to many. With one player controlling the lead character, the other can use a Joy-Con to point at elements in the world and fire turnip projectiles at them - think Super Mario Galaxy’s Star Bit-firing second player. At best it feels a little redundant, and at worst it makes certain combat-focused levels completely pointless, as every threat can be cleared before the person controlling Captain Toad reaches it. It feels like the best solution for co-op play, however - having two entirely separate characters would require many of the existing levels to be redesigned, and that clearly isn’t part of the brief here.Some of the original’s little problems persist. There’s a little too much reliance on the touchscreen, which becomes annoying when your own fat hand blocks your view of a threat. Playing docked on Switch with motion controls should solve that problem, but a giant cursor hovers over the screen at all times, which is hardly the most elegant solution. These new versions have at least removed the maddening decision to map camera control to the Wii U GamePad’s shaky internal gyrosensor, meaning you don’t have to stay stock-still to play anymore.But it’s Nintendo’s borderline magical work with its proprietary engine that makes this remaster shine. Like Mario Kart 8 before it, the Switch version’s sharpened 1080p docked output reveals a game that genuinely ranks among the year’s prettiest, despite being almost 4 years old. Every level hides something gorgeous, whether that’s the particle effects bursting from magically extending minarets in Double Cherry Spires, the gleaming, giant pinball table that makes up Razzle-Dazzle Slider, or Captain Toad’s shivering idle animation on any Boo Mansion level.3DS is a different beast; it understandably looks worse than the original version on such dinky hardware, but it feels frankly miraculous that it works at all. In its more spectacular moments, this is among the best-looking games in the console’s history. Better, in a game entirely about space, angles and perception, the 3D effect isn’t just impressive, but useful. Many of Treasure Tracker’s more fiddly puzzles feel a tad more readable on the less powerful platform, particularly with the New 3DS’ eye-tracking to keep the effect stable.But perhaps the most interesting effect of returning to Treasure Tracker is in realising how influential this little spin-off became within Nintendo. Another game loudly drew on the principles of hakoniwa after Treasure Tracker came out - Super Mario Odyssey. The scales might vary, but both present intricate, self-contained environments, where attention to detail is prized over sheer size. Both place the pleasure of curiosity above and beyond anything else, rewarding players for prodding at and messing with their gorgeous worlds. And both make those rewards for curiosity the only way to progress: Treasure Tracker with Super Gems and Odyssey with Power Moons. It quickly becomes clear that Nintendo’s best platformer of recent years is perhaps more in debt to Captain Toad than it is to 3D World.The line’s never more clearly drawn than when Treasure Tracker drops 4 Odyssey-themed levels into the mix towards the end. Recreating Odyssey’s Kingdoms as Captain Toad-friendly challenges feels weirdly natural. Not only do they look the part, but they act it, too. If you’ve covered the length and breadth of New Donk City already, the miniaturised version of it isn’t just smart, it’s familiar. Well, unless you’re playing the levels on 3DS, where it feels astoundingly odd - it’s always amazing to see how flexible Nintendo’s game engine seems to be. My only complaints here are selfish ones - why can’t there be more of these, and why did the original Super Mario 3D World bonus levels have to be cut to fit them in?
Sonic Mania Plus/Encore DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/10/sonic-mania-plus-review|Last year’s Sonic Mania was a superb return to form for one of gaming’s most enduring icons, and Sega has now delivered even more Sonic in the form of Sonic Mania Plus, which you can get as either DLC – titled Encore – or a physical bundle that includes the main game, the DLC, and a 32-page art book. But before you get fanatical over the prospect of more Sonic Mania, temper your expectations: the new content isn’t all up to the same standard.[Note: This review has been updated to clarify that the DLC upgrade is called Encore and the Plus bundle includes an art book.]The other big addition, Encore mode, is honestly rather disappointing. The big change here is that you collect and cycle through the characters, acquiring buddies and swapping them out randomly through monitors in the level and switching off to the next critter in line if your lead dies. It’s a neat concept but flawed in a few ways, as now there are few benefits to collecting and holding onto rings without the rewards of extra lives and feature-unlocking bonus stages. You see, Encore mode has a new Sonic Spinball-flavored bonus stage that replaces the Blue Sphere challenges and yields continues, characters, and shield items as rewards. It’s cute at first but quickly turns into a war against some very irritating physics and obnoxious obstacle placement – I found myself frequently skipping it when I had a full character roster.Also, unless you know the original Sonic Mania stages inside and out, you probably won’t notice many big differences in the levels other than the placement of the special stage rings, which are still a total pain to find. And when you do find them, the special stages start out brutal from the get-go. The special stages in the original Mania Mode (which is still in the game) started to get really, really nasty with bomb, pit, and rough terrain placement around stage 5 or so, and with the stages proving very punishing for even small mistakes, getting a full set of Emeralds for the true final boss encounter meant a lot of grinding. Well, the Encore special stages start at this approximate level of challenge, so be prepared for a lot of frustration since you have to search for them again after every attempt.
Pokemon Quest Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/06/pokemon-quest-review|I didn’t expect much from Pokemon Quest when I first started playing it. This mobile spin-off has an adorable art style, but it seemed overwhelmingly simple on the surface. However, as I spent more time cultivating cubular Pokemon, Pokemon Quest’s infectious and astonishingly deep Pokemon customization compulsively hooked me -- but maybe not in the most fun way.The combat in Pokemon Quest isn’t the draw of this free-to-play game, requiring little input and even offering an ‘auto’ button that effectively makes it play itself. It may not seem like it, but Pokemon Quest is closer to a puzzle game, challenging you to compose the perfect team for each expedition.Pokemon have a variety of features that differentiate them from each other. Each has a different pool of moves it can learn, and each individual’s moves can be arranged in myriad random ways. Every individual also has a grid of Power Charms which determines which Power Stones can be attached to it, which ultimately determines how much HP and Attack it will have. Lastly, each species of Pokemon has a pool of nine different Bingo Bonuses, which are activated as the Power Charm grid is filled.All of these, besides the moves a Pokemon starts with, are set in stone. Picking which Pokemon to use, with which move, and which passive abilities, became addictive and fun. I really enjoyed figuring out particularly powerful configurations, and seeing my teams steamroll difficult levels gave me a sense of pride and accomplishment.You must create recipes using the ingredients earned by completing expeditions, and if you get a Pokemon of the wrong species, or the wrong Bingo Bonus, or the wrong move layout, you must go back out to adventure to re-earn those ingredients to try again. Still, finally nabbing that perfect Pokemon with tons of potential always provided a rush of excitement.Knowing how to do this without wasting time and resources is half the battle, though, because Pokemon Quest doesn’t do much to provide you with the information needed to succeed. The core Pokemon RPGs don’t require an in-depth knowledge of the hidden mechanics to complete their campaigns, but Pokemon Quest gets difficult enough that I did need to know its inner workings if I wanted to complete it with skill, rather than grinding out an over-leveled team. To skip over the tedious trial-and-error process, I constantly had a Pokemon Quest wiki open with specific recipes and other pertinent info while playing.Don’t get me wrong, I loved tinkering and experimenting to come up with the perfect Pokemon team that would propel me to victory. But I didn’t like how, once I realized that a strategy would work, a mind-numbing and soul-crushing grind was required to get what I needed. I’ve literally had nightmares about how I’ve been unable to get my Shiny Alakazam to learn Psychic because the process of teaching it is so unpredictable.Assuming you already have an Alakazam, here are the steps to get it to learn Psychic “efficiently:”It’s a long road to getting a truly great Pokemon if you’re unlucky, like me. Despite the frustrations, I kept playing. The grindy gameplay loop of searching for perfection is just plain addictive, even if it’s not all that fun, and the cute Pokemon skin is icing on that masochistic cake.If you have the option of choosing where to play Pokemon Quest, you’re much better off on a phone. It’s just not very comfortable to hold up the Switch with one hand and tap with the other, and when it’s docked you have to use a virtual cursor to hit buttons that are too far apart to reach quickly. On top of that, I had issues getting the Switch to register when I held virtual buttons on the touch screen, but I never had this issue on mobile.I paid $30 for the expansion pack, and that sped things up just enough to make Pokemon Quest’s grind feel tolerable. And it’s a relief that neither version lets you spend more than about $50, so Nintendo’s not fishing for big-spending whales with this game. Without it though, Pokemon and Power Stone inventory management would probably be an ordeal.
Mario + Rabbids: Kingdom Battle - Donkey Kong Adventure Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/06/29/mario-rabbids-kingdom-battle-donkey-kong-adventure-review|Donkey Kong Adventure is a full-fledged new world for Mario + Rabbids: Kingdom Battle that puts an ape-flavored twist on its bouncy and colorful turn-based tactical gameplay. It gives up some flexibility to focus its levels so heavily on Donkey Kong's new powers, but in doing so it makes its battles more interesting than just more of the same.Every mission is played with the same three characters: Donkey Kong, Rabbid Cranky, and Rabbid Peach. They make a good team, but being locked in like this sacrifices a lot of replayability potential since all you can really do is swap out your weapon bonuses instead of swapping out characters.On top of that, Donkey Kong can run into the center of a group of enemies and pull them in with the siren call of his bongos, then smashing the crap out of everything around him with a multi-hit ape rage that basically makes him a walking tornado of destruction. It’s extremely satisfying to pull off.The world itself is just as diverse and beautiful as in the main game - each of the four chapters takes place in a different environment, from tropical to jungle to underground, and they’re all splashed with color and details like scenes of Rabbids goofing off in the background. And of course, the music is up to the excellent standard of the original game, with a more Donkey Kong-inspired beat to it. Cranky also addresses one of my little gripes with Mario + Rabbids by riding on top of Beep-O while you’re navigating the world map, making it easier to see where the front of your party is when moving away from the camera.
Hollow Knight Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/06/22/hollow-knight-review|It’s not hard to get lost in the deep, subterranean world of Hollow Knight – and I mean that in more ways than one. The expansive catacombs of Hallownest have countless paths to explore and secrets to find. But more than that, it’s rich with lore, history, and purpose that drew me into a 2D Metroidvania kingdom I wanted to uncover every inch of.The deeper I went into Hollow Knight, the more I was surprised at just how much content and freedom it has to offer. I could wander in basically any direction and find bosses to fight, upgrades to collect, and secrets to uncover. But what’s truly captivating about the exploring this long-dead kingdom is its atmosphere. Art, music, color tone, sound, and a million other little details combine to give each area of the map a distinct sense of place, and those areas jigsaw together in a way that feels intentional and alive.There are far more of these distinct biomes than I ever expected to discover, and the edges of each one blend together with the next in ways that help them make sense in the world. For example, walls on the border of the Fungal Wastes, even impassable ones in other areas, will be dotted with its telltale mushrooms. The lush environment of an area called Greenpath feels bustling and humid, a stark difference to the cold, dark caves of the Forgotten Crossroads. The bubble-filled region of Fog Canyon isn’t technically underwater, but the muffled filter over all of its audio goes hand-in-hand with jellyfish enemies and a brighter blue tone.Hallownest’s capital city, the City of Tears, is a metropolis in a huge cave where it’s always raining. But it wasn’t until 10 hours after I first discovered this place that I stumbled across the Blue Lake, a massive body of serene water positioned just above the underground city. Hollow Knight doesn’t shove this connection in your face, it just lets you explore its world and piece together the story for yourself as you sit down and enjoy a moment of quiet.In fact, Hollow Knight tells you very little about what’s going on, and instead sends you into a world full of monumental events that all happened long before you arrived: wars and heroes, love and culture, disease and destruction. The aftermath of Hallownest’s troubled past is left for you to discover and comes through loud and clear, but only if you take the time to listen. It’s told in a very subtle way, but teaches you so much about Hallownest in the process that I feel like I could practically write a book on it.It’s a tragic tale, one full of fallen heroes and terrible decisions, but it still manages to make time for beautiful, calm, and hopeful moments throughout. And it’s easy to enjoy those moments, because Hollow Knight’s hand-drawn art is simply beautiful. It’s a world that manages to feel cohesive despite its citizens being adorable bug-people in a dying cave.The story (and your place in it) is picked up as you go. Some of it through dialogue with the adorable and quirky characters who still reside in this decrepit kingdom, some through important story events, and some just by observing your surroundings and the clues strewn about it. After my second playthrough, I have a fairly clear picture of Hallownest’s history, but it’s a picture I assembled myself.As much as I genuinely loved being pushed out of the boat and told to start kicking, Hollow Knights’ first few hours can be a predictably sink-or-swim experience as a result. It’s an unashamedly challenging game that does a great job of silently teaching you how to play, but it still felt a little bit daunting to start — especially when death means having to fight your way back to your corpse to reclaim your money, called Geo.You have to find a map seller named Cornifer in each area before you can start keeping track of where you’ve been, and even then you have to equip a specific charm to see where you are on it in real time. That, coupled with fact that getting good at the combat takes practice, means I spent my first couple hours just trying to figure Hollow Knight out.But once I picked up the rhythm of its combat and the pattern of exploring its initially restrictive cave systems, Hollow Knight clicked in a way that made me never want to put it down. After Greenpath, the second major area, you reach a point where there’s no clear “correct” direction anymore. Like any Metroidvania, your path options are gated behind things like ledges too high to reach or gaps too far to jump until you find the necessary upgrades, but there are enough options that don’t result in dead ends to keep to you exploring for quite a while.Hidden around the Kingdom of Hallownest are traditional Metroidvania abilities like a dash and a wall climb to help you better navigate its caves and reach new places. These new movement abilities also allow you to move through new paths in familiar terrain faster and more efficiently, giving the obligatory need to retread old ground (which does happen a fair amount) fresh life. Suddenly your wall climb turns that small gap between platforms into a shortcut instead of a hazard.Thankfully, there is also a flavor-filled quick-travel system called the Stagways. Stag stations can be found and unlocked across Hallownest, allowing you to call The Last Stag to take you between them. What could just be a jump between points instead becomes a quest in itself, and I almost always spoke to The Stag after unlocking a station not to travel, but to hear his gruff but optimistic take on whatever new stop I brought him to.Hollow Knight’s world also undergoes more concrete changes as you progress. Railways and elevators will unlock permanently, opening shortcuts that loop back to earlier sections and easing the burden of backtracking. One early area eventually even morphs into a much harder late-game section in a way that makes it feel like your actions in Hallownest have real weight.The combat in Hollow Knight is relatively straightforward, but starts out tricky as you learn to time quick directional sword slashes with jumps and dashes. It rewards patience and skill massively — killing enemies is a matter of sharp timing, learning attack patterns, and having quick reflexes more than just the upgrades you earn along the way. You can find upgrades to your weapon damage, increase your max health, and equip charms with a variety of abilities, but more importantly, I just got better as I went. A boss that gave me tons of trouble at the start of the game was a pushover when I returned for a second playthrough.And while your timing requires precision, the combat itself is somewhat forgiving. Hitting enemies lets you collect a resource called Soul which you can stop and channel at any time to heal, as long as you don’t get hit. So while the all-or-nothing nature of dropping your Geo on death gives exploration a sweaty-palmed tension, Hollow Knight also gives you the tools to take a breath, gather Soul, and get your health back up.There are a decent amount of smaller enemies scattered around each level as well, acting as weaker baddies that let you recover Soul and collect Geo in relative safety. But there are just as many scary opponents too, and dying far from a checkpoint is a real risk. The enemy variety is impressive to say the least, with nearly 100 different types to fight, and even ones with similar behaviors looking dramatically different depending on what area of the map you find them in.A charm system allows you to customize your own methods for killing those enemies as well. Each charm takes up a set number of notches (which you can earn more of along the way) and range from small effects, like extending your attack distance or gathering more Soul on hits, to large trade-off changes, like doubling your health but preventing you from healing at all, which can dramatically change how you play.Thankfully, you can freely swap them out whenever you sit at a bench, which also serve as Hollow Knight’s save points and healing stations. That meant I could come up with specific combinations to counter different scenarios on the fly. I had my favorite loadout for general use, a loadout that upped the amount of Geo I got and collected it automatically, and a loadout for moving more quickly. If you prefer using Hollow Knight’s Soul-consuming damage abilities instead of swinging your sword (called a Nail) you could equip charms that increase Soul damage and even change your attacks entirely.For some harder boss fights that didn’t give me an opportunity to heal, my loadout even shifted to maximizing my temporary health at the cost of unequipping charms I had grown to rely on. Through all that experimentation, it never felt like there was a wrong choice. All the charms are good, and they all work, and it’s up to you to determine which you like the most and which work best for the scenario in front of you.And if any situation will push you to test those choices out, it will likely be one of Hollow Knight’s copious amount of boss fights. Seriously: there are dozens of different bosses, ranging from small and quick enemies to large, deadly brutes. These contained challenges are some of the best thrills available because they force you to find a strategy, learn when it’s safe to attack or heal, and get better each time you get crushedBecause believe me, you will get crushed. Those hard losses occasionally slowed my momentum, but there is almost always some other path to explore. If I was having trouble pushing through in one direction, I’d just wander down another until I got stronger (or just better) and decided to face that tough fight again.In fact, a staggering amount of Hollow Knight’s best content is entirely optional. You could probably beat the campaign without seeing two-thirds of what it has to offer, though the quest to get an alternate (and much better) ending will pull you in front of significantly more. Bosses, thoughtful story, and whole sections of the map can remain hidden, which adds to that feeling of actually exploring this world when you do stumble upon them.The key here is that none of this optional content feels like filler. I actively wanted to find every secret I possibly could and learn what was actually going on in the story. It all felt unique, significant, and wonderfully put together. Even after the 30+ hours it took me to truly beat Hollow Knight, I was excited to go back for more.Having so much to do at any given time can admittedly be overwhelming at points. There can be so many open paths on your map that the burden of deciding which to explore next can make you doubt which is the “right” way. But the beauty of Hallownest is that there is very rarely a right or wrong choice, and it’s unlikely two players will explore these caves in the same order.Hollow Knight has also been getting free post-launch content updates since its launch on PC last year, all of which are included on Switch (and more updates are on the way, according to developer Team Cherry). Those patches have added new areas and new bosses, and one even added the ability to add custom markers to your map. The simple act of being able to visually track when I need to revisit an area or which paths I’ve yet to go down is a godsend. It has helped me take stock of what needs to be done alongside the other late-game amenities Hollow Knight makes available for completionists, like maps that will eventually track certain collectibles.But so much of what’s worth finding past the point where you can “beat” Hollow Knight is pure, concentrated lore. To really get a picture of what you’re doing (and to properly inform an important choice you have to make) you need to explore. I love that those key moments in the story tie into some of the best gameplay challenges it has to offer as well.For example, one of the final secret areas basically transforms Hollow Knight into a Super Meat Boy-style platformer with very little combat. Platforming challenges exist all throughout the world, with some of the most thrilling requiring you to use your Nail as a pogo stick while you bounce across spikes, Duck Tales-style — but this area is something else entirely, and tells you about the history of that location with its themes.And, as I mentioned before, the music adds to that setting and art one thousand times over. While each location has its own theme and boss fight music, individual melodies and instruments will shift in and out as you move from screen to screen. The mood and tension of a scene are often driven by that music, and the soundtrack has quickly become one of my favorites.
Splatoon 2: Octo Expansion DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/06/20/splatoon-2-octo-expansion-dlc-review|If most single-player campaigns in online shooters are designed to get your feet wet before throwing you into the pool with other players, Splatoon 2’s Octo Expansion is designed to throw you into the intimidating deep end. Many of its cleverly designed levels are not afraid to ask for a certain level of skill as they test you in more than just combat scenarios; some demand precise platforming or evasion against overwhelming odds, while others tease your brain to manipulate the environment and guide vulnerable objects to a goal. The sheer variety and difficulty of challenges, encased in a somber and grimy take on Splatoon’s world, leads to a single-player experience that rarely pulls its punches.Octo Expansion puts you in the role of an Octoling (who’s much friendlier than those in the other campaigns), codenamed Agent 8, and teams you up with the grizzled Captain Cuttlefish to find an ally and escape an underwater dungeon. There’s a lot of funny and clever writing here, with highlights such as when several characters get in touch with their hip-hop side to help the exposition along, and a particularly hilarious talking telephone tries to enable “contemporary speech mode” to better relate to today’s Octoling youth. The macguffins you find by completing levels are literally called “thangs,” for example.All of these tests of skill in Octo Expansion are encased within the gloomy plane of the Deepsea Metro, which serves as a gateway between them. I loved seeing all of its bizarre, deep sea-inspired passengers that look like they’re commuting home from the set of a Guillermo Del Toro movie. The Metro is a clever way to create a branching level-selection system, as each of the stops is a trial room that sometimes opens up a new rail line to explore. It’s a relief that you don’t necessarily have to beat your head against a wall if a level is too hard, and can instead find a different line to progress in another direction. And for those dreading some of these unforgiving challenges: there is an option to bypass a level if you’ve been stuck on it for several tries.[
Mario Tennis Aces Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/06/20/mario-tennis-aces-review|Playing a match in Mario Tennis Aces is like challenging someone to an arm wrestle and a staring contest simultaneously. Muscling your opponent around the court with clever shot selection and proper baseline positioning during a rally is as essential as ever, but it’s the layer of fighting game-inspired mechanics applied on top that adds unblinking tension and strategy to each and every point you play. As a result, Mario Tennis Aces serves up some of the most refined and rewarding gameplay in the series to date, but passes up the opportunity to make the most of it with an underdeveloped single-player mode and slight customisation options.The nuanced play on the court comes from the depth of some smart new mechanics. Each player in Mario Tennis Aces has an energy gauge that can be filled by performing charged-up strokes or trick shots, the former requiring you to be in the optimal court position to meet the ball, the latter a riskier move that demands pinpoint timing when the ball is just out of reach. How you expel that energy has a substantial influence on the outcome of each point; do you gradually deplete it by using the slow-motion zone speed ability to chase down a drilled crosscourt passing shot and keep the ball in play, or do you keep banking energy until the gauge is full so that you can unleash a special shot to put an explosive exclamation mark on the end of the rally? And in the case of the special shot, do you aim it down the line for a likely winner or violently smack it right at your opponent in an effort to John McEnroe their racket into pieces and potentially end the match prematurely by knockout?Seemingly triumphant smash shots are swiftly countered with deftly timed blocks.It’s a system that does a lot with a relatively simple set of mechanics, facilitating dynamic swings in the momentum of a rally as energy gauges surge and drain, and seemingly triumphant smash shots are swiftly countered with deftly timed blocks. It’s further enhanced by the flexibility of its inputs. For example, if you plant yourself for a charge shot on one side of the court only for your opponent to drive a forehand to the other, you can cancel the charge and pull off a vaulting trick shot at the last second to nail a winner down the line. Moments like that demonstrate how Mario Tennis Aces is a far more fun, well balanced and less gimmicky brand of superpowered tennis than that of its disappointing Wii U predecessor, Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash.Another big reason that Ultra Smash sailed well wide of the service box was that its single-player features were almost non-existent. Mario Tennis Aces’ takes some steps to remedy that complaint, albeit not nearly to the extent of making itself viable as a single-player only game beyond the short term.In Adventure mode, Mario travels around a world map taking on challenges and bosses in a variety of vivid locales, such as batting back fireballs at Piranha Plants in a jungle setting, or playing a match against a Shy Guy on a snowy train platform while sidestepping in and out of a stream of passengers hustling across the court to make their departure. The boss fights, in particular, make smart use of Mario Tennis Aces’ special moves, with the Madame Mirage mirror in the haunted mansion requiring the reticle-based zone shot to blast the ball through the gaps in a wall of floating furniture, and the tentacle swipes of the huge Gooper Blooper sea monster which must be hurdled with a well-timed trick shot.Completing each challenge earns XP to level Mario up and strengthen attributes like shot speed and agility, giving a decent sense of progression from one level to the next. In addition, there are six rackets to win along the way which both further Mario’s shot power and also give him spares to fall back on should one break in the middle of a match. It’s a shame that there isn’t more of a tangible difference between each racket beyond increased power – you’d expect that the ice racket would give Mario the ability to freeze an opponent, or maybe the old wooden racket could have imparted additional sidespin to slice shots. But this is not the case, and consequently there’s little reason to switch back and forth between rackets to suit a situation as you collect them.It’s also somewhat curious that these rackets aren’t available anywhere outside of Adventure mode. In fact, it’s disappointing that there’s precious little to unlock in general. The biggest problem with Mario Tennis Aces’ Adventure mode is how poorly it incentivises you to keep playing. I had completed all 27 of its levels and unlocked all of its courts and rackets by the time I was on level 34, which was around a half a dozen hours of game time. Out of curiosity, I replayed a number of the challenges and boss fights several more times over to grind my way up to level 55, but was rewarded with absolutely nothing aside from incremental boosts to Mario’s stats, thus making the existing challenges even easier. With no New Game+ or more challenging versions of its levels to unlock, or even the option of playing through it with a different character, Mario Tennis Aces’ Adventure mode becomes increasingly simple and repetitive the more time you put into it. As an alternative, I found 2017’s Golf Story to be a lengthier and more diverse sports RPG adventure to enjoy on my daily commute.Mario Tennis Aces’ single-player content is ultimately a pretty baseline effort.The other single-player mode, Tournament, is also more short-lived than a book of Toad’s memoirs. There are Mushroom, Flower, and Star tournaments, each consisting of three rounds of increasingly tough opponents to topple. But it’s all stick and no carrot. Completing a tournament with each of the 16 characters nets you the same trophy splash screen and nothing more - there are no rackets, alternate costumes, or additional characters to be discovered. (All 16 characters are unlocked from the start, with Koopa Troopa and Blooper coming via a free DLC update post launch.) There’s also no option to play these tournaments with an AI partner in a doubles pairing. While certainly an improvement on Mario Tennis: Ultra Smash, Mario Tennis Aces’ single-player content is ultimately a pretty baseline effort.label=Mixed%20DoublesMultiplayer has a considerably longer lifespan by comparison but it, too, is not without its quirks. For starters, most same-screen multiplayer matches have a mandatory vertical split-screen. Presumably, this is to make it less disorientating for the human players on the far side of the court when the perspective switches to first-person for a zone or special shot, but it results in a fairly narrow field of view, particularly for doubles matches. I would have at least appreciated the option of disabling it.There’s a decent variety of courts in the rotation, a handful of which featuring game-altering hazards such as portal mirrors that reroute the trajectory of the ball, or explosive Mechakoopas that turn a doubles match into a spectacularly chaotic warzone. Yet actually setting up a match on them is cumbersome. Rather than simply choosing the court you want, you have to toggle off all the courts you don’t want instead, which feels unnecessarily convoluted. On top of this, the absence of the ability to play an offline tournament with friends seems like a glaring omission.Lastly, while there is a notable difference in the strengths and weaknesses of each character, (for example, Boo’s slice shot can hoop around corners while Bowser is all about lumbering brute force,) I can’t help but feel that Mario Tennis Aces’ longevity would have benefited from more customisation options, a la Mario Kart 8 or ARMS. If you could change your racket type or perhaps choose from alternate special moves and thus create more permutations within each match up, then Mario Tennis Aces’ multiplayer mode would likely have had longer legs than a pair of Waluigi’s dungarees. (Note: As of the time of writing this review, Nintendo is yet to enable online multiplayer, so I’ve based my impressions on local multiplayer and my experience in the pre-launch Online Tournament demo. If online doesn’t work as expected at launch, this review will be updated.)Rounding out the Mario Tennis Aces package is the Swing mode, which invites you up out of your armchair to play your strokes via the JoyCon motion controls. Despite the fact the JoyCon has a more sensitive gyro sensor than the Wiimote, I found Swing mode to be too inconsistent in terms of differentiating between a flat shot and a slice, or even a forehand and a backhand. As a result, it felt like a far more unreliable and frustrating alternative to button-based inputs – somewhat flying in the face of its more accessible, ‘family friendly’ intentions.
BlazBlue Cross Tag Battle Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/06/05/blazblue-cross-tag-battle-review|BlazBlue Cross Tag Battle brings together the worlds of BlazBlue, Persona 4 Arena, Under Night In-Birth and RWBY in a surprisingly approachable alternative to each of the games that it borrows from. Introducing a unique, but easy to understand fighting system supported by innovative tag mechanics, great characters, and the usual ArcSys flair that makes its games so striking.That may sound like too high a price to pay, but Cross Tag Battle makes it work by striking a fantastic balance that appeals to newcomers and experienced fighting game fans alike.The meat of BlazBlue Cross Tag Battle’s fighting system is in its assist system though, and that’s where fighting game fans will truly find the depth they’re looking for. One example of this is that characters have three assist moves that can be called upon while they’re not active, typically a dashing assist, a long-range assist, and a close-range assist.The ability to have three unique assist attacks, each with a predictable effect, adds a ton of versatility to every team; better still, it makes using them in combos very intuitive. Whenever you knock an enemy away with an attack, chances are you can catch them with a neutral dashing assist to continue the combo. If you’ve got an opponent stuck in a corner, you can probably knock them down and scoop them back up with a close-range assist. If you catch them with a stray projectile assist, you can usually find a way to dash in yourself and continue the combo. If you can imagine a combo, and it makes sense, you can probably pull it off in Cross Tag Battle. That’s extremely satisfying.Less well thought-out is the single-player story mode, which loses the plot as it attempts to explain why the worlds of BlazBlue, Persona 4 Arena, Under Night In Birth, and RWBY are all coming together. None of the four episodes offer any sort of satisfying conclusion, there’s no way to pick specific chapters to replay for a new ending, and it quickly gets tiring listening to the same revelations that happened in one episode, in another.At least the characters in each of the series are all fantastic, and some great interactions between them prevent this mode from being a total slog. Ruby, in particular, steals the show with her adorable reactions whenever someone has a cool weapon for her to geek out about.That being said, the true staying power of any fighting game is in how fun it is to compete against other players both locally and online, and in that regard, Cross Tag Battle is great. Online play is the usual ArcSys affair, with an interactive lobby and adorable avatars that you can unlock. While Cross Tag Battle still doesn’t use the GGPO netcode, after nearly 100 matches in the beta, I’ve only rarely encountered lag substantial enough to affect the outcome of a game. Playing locally is still obviously the way to go whenever possible, though it would’ve been nice to have a quick-restart button rather than getting kicked out to the team order-select screen every time.
Bloodstained: Curse of the Moon Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/05/30/bloodstained-curse-of-the-moon-review|Bloodstained: Curse of the Moon treads a thin line between homage and outright theft. Created as a Kickstarter bonus for the upcoming modern-looking Bloodstained: Ritual of the Night, Curse of the Moon taps into project's attempt to continue Castlevania's metroidvania legacy by setting its sights on that series' older, 8-bit entries. Not only does it succeed at paying the NES Castlevania games tribute, it almost does it a little too accurately for its own good.Curse of the Moon conspicuously borrows critical mechanics and concepts specifically from 1990's NES classic, Castlevania III. It allows you to alternate between four different playable characters, each with their own distinct skills and attack styles, as you fight your way through eight linear stages packed with monsters and platform hazards. They're practically spitting images of Castlevania III's playable characters, from Gebel the vampire (who throws fireballs and transforms into a bat, like Castlevania's Alucard) to Arthur the wizard (who swings a puny staff and controls overpowered magic, like Castlevania's Sypha). Curse of the Moon moves a little faster and feels more forgiving than Castlevania III, making it feel more modern than the slow-moving 90s games, but there's absolutely no mistaking the intent.Even before you apply modifiers, there are a lot of ways to tackle Curse of the Moon's eight stages, and each level contain multiple routes to the end. The variety created by these branching paths and play options, and the bone-breaking old-school challenge available in certain formats, give Curse of the Moon far more replayability than its brief, two-hour length would suggest.Fans of Shovel Knight will likely be reminded of that game's outstanding approach to recapturing the look and feel of the NES era. Curse of the Moon doesn't quite reach that remarkably high bar; it lacks Shovel Knight's meticulous level design and surprising variants on standard enemies. The basic foes you face here never stray far from the Castlevania mold, relying on familiar concepts like Medusa heads flying in tricky sine patterns and armored knights tossing axes. They look different, sure, but this is the standard Castlevania bestiary with swapped sprites.
Yoku's Island Express Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/05/29/yokus-island-express-review|A Metroidvania-pinball hybrid isn't a thing I ever expected to exist, but Yoku’s Island Express feels like a breath of fresh air in a genre that’s felt crowded as of late. It’s fun, adorable, and wonderfully unique while still satisfying the things I love about 2D platformers. Even if its pinball paths occasionally got frustrating to navigate, I enjoyed every minute I spent with its charming, secret-filled campaign.Yoku’s Island Express creatively fuses a traditional Metroidvania game with pinball mechanics in a way that feels surprisingly natural. You take control of a tiny beetle postmaster named Yoku, pushing around a ball and making deliveries on a large open-world island. There’s a fairly straightforward but cute story to follow, alongside a hefty amount of side quests, hidden collectibles, and other distractions.While the bulk of the gorgeous 2D levels might make it seem like a familiar run ‘n jump platformer, you can’t actually jump at all. Instead, you have to use paddles (activated by your controller’s shoulder buttons) to knock yourself into tracks, bumpers, and more scattered around the island to bounce your ball around obstacles, dragging Yoku along with it. It’s a novel concept, and the fast-firing responsiveness of the flippers is satisfying in the same way as hopping around the Mushroom Kingdom as Mario.As you roll around and explore, you’ll occasionally drop into distinct areas that are basically small pinball tables, each with their own lanes to fire down and skill shots that require occasionally frustratingly precise timing. Lots of familiar pinball mechanics are present here, like lights to turn on in different lanes or bumpers to knock around, all of which will pour fruit to collect onto the table. Tricks that work on real tables work here too, like putting up one flipper to let the ball roll over to the other — but now if you slow down too much you can take direct control of Yoku and push the ball over the gap.I really enjoyed these contained challenges, and they are used in clever ways. Many have doors you need to unlock by collecting purple gems on the table before you can progress further — so instead of just being about getting points, you’re trying to make specific shots to free the gems from crystals or spinners. Other tables can take the shape of epic and difficult multi-ball boss battles, which are some of the coolest challenges available.Before I unlocked the adorable Beeline fast-travel system, I did find myself having to retreading the island’s core paths to and from the hub town fair bit. Replaying the same tables each time I wanted to go through an area got a bit repetitive because navigating a table isn’t as simple as hopping through a completed area in a traditional platformer. Instead, it requires a series of shots with tight timing to proceed, so barely missing multiple times in a row hurts the flow of moving through the world and could be frustrating when I returned to areas looking for secrets.But it’s hard to stop smiling when playing a game this peppy, and personality is overflowing out of every corner of Yoku’s Island Express. There’s no combat outside of a few bosses, and the tool you get to break open certain objects is a party-blower noise maker that you can make Yoku adorably spam as you run around. The cutesy Animal Crossing-style voices, cheery music, and lovely painted art style (which has some of the cooler background parallaxing I’ve seen in a 2D game) make being in this world a joy, and that helps temper the frustration.The island’s quirky inhabitants are also amusing to meet, and often send you on side-missions as elaborate as the main story — it wasn’t uncommon for me to have four or five different things I could be doing at any given time. One townsperson wanted me to spread mushroom spores around the island, while another asked me to bring back baubles that I could use to customize the look of my ball.While the campaign smartly doesn’t overstay its welcome — it took me about six hours to complete, including some distractions — collecting all 80 of Yoku’s hidden Wickerlings, finding all of its chests, and completing some other simple missions like delivering letters made me want to keep playing even after the credits rolled.
Runner 3 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/05/18/runner-3-review|When I was learning to play the trumpet as a kid, my dad told me I didn’t really know a song until I could play it 10 times in a row without a mistake. Runner 3 takes this same basic practice-makes-perfect concept and makes a quality platforming rhythm game out of it.Everything you do, from avoiding obstacles and gaps to gathering gold bars and gems along your path, is timed to the rhythm of the toe-tapping background music. The poppy techno tunes stick with you, and even when you’re not playing you might find the songs still in your head.Each level is absolutely bonkers, with anthropomorphized machines, plants, and other oddities giving it a theater of the absurd vibe. Some of backgrounds are quite alive: the hills have eyes and dopey smiles, giant furnaces scowl as they bellow heat and cinders. Even the moon stares down from the sky with a sleepy grin. The characters themselves are unsettling and their costumes even more so. Uncle Dill, the slack-jawed, dead-eyed pickle character unlocked through Hero Quest, was my preferred character just because of how ugly he is. At the same time, the jagged edges and bland textures look like they’d be more at home on a five-year old iPhone game than the Switch.Just like its predecessors, Runner 3 demands perfection in timing. It starts off simple enough: just jump over a difficult series of obstacles and gaps. But as you progress through the levels it introduces new moves so the challenge of mastering them never lets up: push down to slide under obstacles; hit Y to kick through certain walls; hold down jump to slow your descent and increase your distance; and double jump to get over and across even larger gaps and obstacles. Once you’ve gotten the hang of the moves you have to start linking them together in rapid succession just to travel a few feet, which requires full concentration. If your nose begins to itch in the middle of a run, you have to suffer the discomfort because there’s no time to scratch.But while the difficulty curve is tough and steady, it’s not unfair. When you mess up the timing of a jump, your run is instantly over, but it’s nobody’s fault but your own. Halfway through the second world, repeating the same sections over and over again became almost rage-quit levels of frustrating. Overcoming this challenge is how Runner 3 gets its hooks into you – once you get on top of its brutal difficulty, there’s a good chance you won’t be able to wait for the next chance to play it.Some of the earlier levels were practically a walk in the park in hindsight, and that’s the real beauty of Runner 3. It never gets easier. In fact, it only gets harder. It makes you get better. The secret to Runner 3 was inside of me, all along.There’s so much to do outside of running through levels just to finish them. There are side quests accessed through branching paths, letting you unlock characters and costumes. When you finally beat a level, you open up the gem path, an alternate and more difficult path. Gathering gold bars unlocks new and more of the ultra-tough “impossible” levels. It makes Runner 3 a pleasantly robust, if a bit ugly, game.
Donkey Kong: Tropical Freeze on Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/05/01/donkey-kong-tropical-freeze-for-switch-review|When we first reviewed Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze on the Wii U in 2014, we gave it a 9.0, for Amazing. Here’s what we said about it then:“Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze is a great platformer full of tense sequences and tough levels. Boss battles are a huge highlight, and it’s packed with hard-to-find secrets and collectibles. Multiplayer could use some improvement, but I found myself laughing whenever my teammate and I wiped out on some of these unforgiving setups. But a rewarding sense of accomplishment stuck with me each time I overcame a new obstacle, and that feeling kept me going all the way to the end.”Read the full Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze review.The Switch version maintains the difficulty and tough bosses, but adds a more accessible and fun Funky Mode, if you aren’t up for the soul-crushing challenges of some of Tropical Freeze’s later levels.Tropical Freeze looks great on Switch. The excellent animation moves fluidly while docked or in handheld. I did find myself leaning in close during tense boss battles so I could better keep track of everything happening on screen, but portable Donkey Kong is excellent. I wouldn't recommend taking on some of the harder levels in public if, like me, you’re unable to stifle frustrated sighs even when surrounded by strangers.The controls are tight and jumps are easy to pull off, but I found playing in handheld mode harder than playing with the Pro Controller. I had difficulty with the smaller shoulder buttons on the Joy-Cons, used to pick up barrels and stunned enemies. Sometimes I’d accidentally throw something because there isn’t as much play in those shoulder buttons. Likewise, I struggled to beat the final boss with the Switch in handheld because picking up and throwing stunned enemies is a huge part of the process. Once I sat down on my couch with a controller, I… still struggled, but less so.The boss battles, too, are difficult but fair. I never felt like I died because of some cheap move on the part of the game. I died because I just wasn’t good enough. And I wasn’t good enough A LOT, particularly on some of the later bosses. Thankfully extra lives by way of balloon are easy to come by. Funky sells them in his shop for the low price of just three coins, and there are plenty of other chances to pick up extra chances along the way.
Attack on Titan 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/03/15/attack-on-titan-2-review|With its first Attack on Titan game in 2016, developer Omega Force laid down a rough but promising groundwork for what a game based around the anime phenomenon should be: fast-paced and thrilling aerial battles against gargantuan Titans with a unique control scheme that allows you to zip around effortlessly using Omni-Directional Mobility Gear. Attack on Titan 2 builds upon that foundation with a much-improved interface and some cool new tricks to slice the napes of a Titan in fun and extravagant ways. But the sharp edge of this sequel is dulled a bit by an all too familiar story mode hamstrung by plodding pacing.Trailers for Attack on Titan 2 might have you believe that it picks up where the first game left off and primarily covers the events of season two of the Attack on Titan anime, but the reality is the story mode is about 80% a retelling of season one, and 20% season two. That means that if you played the 2016 game, prepare for about 10 hours of retreading very familiar missions, boss fights, and some of the exact same cutscenes.One of the differences this time around is that the story is framed through the perspective of a player-created character who’s been written in as an inconsequential trainee who befriends the main cast. This could’ve been fine if your character had any sort of personality to speak of, but the role you play is disappointingly bland and uninteresting. You’re given a choice of how to respond to other characters, but there’s no consistency in the dialogue options and you’re encouraged to choose the obviously “correct” choice, even if it’s out of character for how you’ve been playing thus far. At one point a character was being full of themselves and bragging about how amazing they are and ask you what you think, you’re punished if you don’t flatter them. That’s thanks to a shoehorned “Friendship Level” system that rewards you by unlocking skills for your character. The side stories you unlock by leveling up your friendships are all dull, too. (There’s also another mode, literally called “Another Mode,” where can you actually choose a character from the show and complete missions removed from the context of the story.)While this kind of system may work in Persona games, it falls totally flat here and contributes to Story Mode’s plodding lack of momentum. Worse, you have to do it because your character progression is tied to those relationships. If you decide to skip it you’re at a tremendous disadvantage when you go out in the field.Omega Force did an incredible job of adapting the battles from the manga and anime into video game form in the last game, and this time around it feels even better, with faster and more fluid movement that feels like a cross between Spider-Man and the Prototype games. After you’ve locked onto a Titan you’re able to select individual arms or legs to strike to disable the disturbingly naked giant beast, or you could go straight for the kill by targeting the neck. Lining up the shot with the left stick, then releasing to reel yourself in at high speeds feels like loading a slingshot, and timing your sword slash just right in order to deal maximum damage is a satisfying feeling when you nail it. It took some practice, but once I got it down I felt like an unstoppable force. Even after more than 15 hours of play I was still having a great time with the combat.Finally, while you can’t directly control any of the characters from the show in Story Mode, you can recruit them into your squad and give them orders. Some characters even have special abilities: Armin, for instance, can give your character an attack buff, and the super-powerful Mikasa can basically use Omnislash to immediately take down just about any non-boss Titan. These abilities do a great job of making you feel like you’re working together with the characters from the show, as opposed to them just being in the background.All of these improvements come on top of a much cleaner, more compact interface, faster and more fluid movement, two-player online co-op, and a cool online competitive mode called Annihilation that pits two teams of up to four against each other to see who can kill the most Titans and score the most points before time expires. You only get credit for the kill if you land the final blow, so coordination and timing is important to make sure that you don’t lose kills to the other team – and to try to steal theirs.
Kirby Star Allies Review - Fantastically Clever and Frantic|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/03/14/kirby-star-allies-review|As Nintendo’s chameleon character, Kirby is only as interesting as the abilities he copies. With up to four players controlling him and his new elementally powered friends, Kirby Star Allies gives him a lot to work with. You can mix, match, and combine abilities to reach greater heights than a Kirby game ever has before. Whether it’s working together to solve environmental puzzles or charging up weapons, this engaging and colorful co-op platformer allows everyone to shine in a whimsical adventure that ends just a bit too quickly.In addition to Kirby’s trademark copying power in which he absorbs the abilities of enemies he slurps up, you can now toss hearts at enemies to turn them to your cause, letting you use their abilities at the same time. So while Kirby may start solo, you soon ally with up to three more fighters who’re controlled by your friends or a helpful AI. Together you’ll tear through the vibrant and energetic levels, and the resulting melee begins to feel more like a very cute beat-‘em-up than a traditional Kirby platformer – especially when tangling with the varied and creative bosses and minibosses. Arenas practically explode with fiery projectiles, hazardous elements, and hilarious team attacks, but thanks to the well-defined art style things never got so out of hand that I couldn’t pick out my character from the chaos.Each of the almost two dozen enemy types you can entice to your side embody one of the many abilities Kirby can copy, like the sword-wielding Blade Knight or the ice-blasting Chilly. When Kirby is using a weapon ability like a Cutter and holding it in the air, allies can strike at it to enchant your attacks with new effects and increased damage. Elemental effects can also be used to counter enemies’ defenses, like dousing a flame-wreathed shield with water to make a big enemy easier to take down. With so many team combinations and weapon/element combos, the first few hours were full of surprises as I discovered what a newly swapped-in ally could bring to the fight.Other allies can fulfill specific roles like healing or grappling, but my favorite is the Broom Hatter. His ability to infuse weapons with wind attacks with his broom, apply a water buff with a splash of his bucket, or even use a vacuum cleaner to send my friends ricocheting around the screen to destroy everything in sight.Just using your team to demolish enemies is fun in its own right, but Star Allies takes a clever approach to making sure you’re constantly rearranging your group. There are plenty of roadblocks along your side-scrolling adventure, and it’s only by using the right abilities in tandem that you’ll be able to forge ahead, or find secret areas. Giant bomb on a rope blocking your path? Only cutting moves will sever that rope - but you’ll also need to make sure your cutter’s been supercharged by a fiery ally to light the fuse while cutting the rope. The constant variety of intriguing yet intuitive puzzles, and the allure of seeing what each new enemy could do, kept me swapping out allies or changing Kirby’s current abilities.Combining moves to solve puzzles is also where the AI partners of Star Allies surprisingly shine. Initially, I was worried I’d have to direct my team by myself (and you can, by having Kirby piggyback on an AI ally to manually control them), but instead I found them quite reactive to their environment. Simply holding my weapon aloft would trigger any elemental allies in my group to shuffle over and supercharge me and any other non-elemental teammates. They would also react to any puzzle elements they could tackle on their own: a water ally would busy himself dowsing flames, while the the hammer-swinging Bonkers would smack down on any pegs. Having the right ability or ally in the right place often led to discovering hidden areas and treasure. My only gripe is that the puzzles inside optional secret rooms aren’t exactly challenging because the necessary characters are often standing patiently nearby. It was only in the last few levels that these secret areas really made think or go out of my way to find the abilities I needed.If you prefer having human friends on your team, Kirby Star Allies makes it easy with an extremely simple and effective drop in/drop out local co-op system available at any point during a level. Friends need only press the L and R buttons on their controller of choice to take over an AI teammate (or, if Kirby is alone, they’ll pop out of whatever form he’s copied). If that friend has to leave mid-level, all it takes is holding down the Y button (or A depending on you control scheme) to give control back to the AI. It's the incredibly streamlined appeal of this system that makes it a perfect party game, and the screen zooms in on the action close enough to make playing handheld with friends a viable option (if you don’t mind crowding around).The nonsense story is the same random excuse for action that you’d expect from a Kirby game: a mysterious force appears to threaten the universe and wakes Kirby up from his nap, which gives way to mysterious characters who fight you for... reasons. Even if you don’t understand why, the battles themselves are clever and frantic in the best possible way. Given the multiplayer nature of Kirby Star Allies, boss enemies waste little time in evening out the playing field by forcing your allies apart, or creating multiple threats to deal with. Sometimes, having the right ally can save the day, like using Parasol Waddle Dee and his “Chumbrella” to shield your whole team from a boss.What the plot lacks in substance, Star Allies definitely makes up for in style, most notably in its scenic settings, the crazy, over-the-top final boss battle, and the catchy soundtrack that accompanies Kirby on his journey. Planets and environments will shift between shimmering icy slopes, lush forests and underwater caverns, and fiery volcanic hotspots pelted with dangerous burning meteors. Each location looks crisp and stylized, and even with my team of four exploding enemies left and right, I never saw the action dip below it’s smooth 60 frames per second. [Note: I've seen other reviewers say they saw noticeable slowdowns, but in my experience it wasn't significant.] I was really happy to see some nods to older songs in secret levels, as well as the collectible puzzle pieces that formed guest art (ala the 3DS’ Streetpass Puzzle Swap) to celebrate the history of the franchise.A lot of the fun comes from sequences that have your allies combine to form unified constructs like the Friend Circle or Friend Train, which allow you to mow down enemies while avoiding pitfalls (and hoping your friends don’t try and overrule the timing on your jumps). I really enjoyed riding the Friend Star, which saddled the team on a flying star - allowing one person to steer (that could be swapped at will), while the rest fired projectiles to clear threats and destroy terrain.While the main map will have you crisscrossing galaxies to a variety of themed planets that all look gorgeous, the frantic pace of barreling through enemies at top speed actually made some levels feel short and insubstantial. Even finding all of the hidden switches to open up secret levels and most of the collectibles, I was able to see it all in around eight hours.Of course, there are an assortment of other modes to check out after that, and some are decent. The confusingly named Guest Star ???? Star Allies Go, on the other hand, is a challenging two-hour romp that has you picking an ally to speedrun through highlights of the campaign. It’s an interesting twist that forces you to rely on your ability to arrange your team to fill in the gaps left by Kirby’s absence. Because you can’t swap moves like Kirby can, and you’ll find a lot fewer healing items, you need to play defensively and make use of allies like Chef Kawasaki to churn out a feast of health. There are at least a few new surprises to find in this mode, which makes it worth checking out.The other big mode, The Ultimate Choice, has you picking a set team to run through a boss battle gauntlet with limited health items. Again, it’s an interesting idea, but the ability to revive downed teammates made it pretty easy even on some of the “spiciest” difficulties. Finally, the minigames Star Slam Heroes and Chop Champs are extremely quick bouts of batting practice and tree-cutting, respectively, and didn’t really feel engaging past a single round.
Into The Breach Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/02/27/into-the-breach-review|A lot of tactical depth can happen on a simple eight-by-eight grid. Into The Breach, the follow-up to the legendary FTL: Faster Than Light from Subset Games, creates a fantastic variety of turn-based tactical battles between your team of three mechs and giant, city-destroying kaiju monsters. On a regular basis, Into The Breach makes me scratch my head and wonder how I’m going to get out of this mess alive. And on a few of those occasions, it’s a thrill when I actually do.Aside from the subtly detailed animations, the colorful and easily readable pixel-art graphics style does risk Into The Breach being mistaken for a typical simplistic mobile game - though, to be honest, I very much hope it’s eventually ported to phones so I can play it everywhere I go. On the most surface of levels, it’s about moving your units into position to shoot, punch, bombard, push, or otherwise affect the waves of monsters that erupt from the ground, and uses an XCOM-like one move, one attack per turn system that’s become common since 2012. But the way its countless smart rules interact with each other makes learning the nuances of its battle system one of the most rewarding tactical experiences I’ve played in years.On one of Into The Breach’s semi-roguelike runs (meaning there’s no saving and reloading if something goes wrong) every choice you make feels important, especially after you’ve played a bit and unlocked some new starting options. Each squad of three mechs has a unique set of abilities: you begin with the straightforward Rift Walkers, who have a simple melee bot with a damaging knockback punch, a tank with a damaging knockback shot, and an artillery unit that damages a tile and knocks back all adjacent tiles. But then you can unlock the Blitzkrieg, who have a Lightning Mech with an electrified whip that hits everything adjacent to its target in an unlimited chain of damage, a Hook Mech that grapples enemies and moves them adjacent to it, and the Boulder Mech which launches giant rocks that deal damage, push back horizontally adjacent units, and can obstruct a tile. Or the Flame Behemoths or Frozen Titans, whose specialties you can probably guess but come with some unexpected twists that make them great to experiment with. You can even build your own squad by mixing and matching mechs from any of the ones you’ve unlocked in search of brand new strategies.On top of that, you get to pick one special pilot from an unlockable set of 13 who add a unique ability to whichever mech you assign them to, amplifying the potential starting combinations through the roof before you even begin to upgrade your team. If, for example, you put Abe Isamu in a unit like the Zenith Guard’s Charge Mech, which can ram enemies from any distance, his armor trait will negate the damage that mech would deal to itself by doing so. Or, if you place Silica in the Boulder Mech, you can launch two long-range attacks in a single turn that - if you’re positioned correctly so you don’t need to move - can obstruct two squares. (The other two pilots you start each run with are relatively expendable, but can gain experience and level up for small bonuses.)Then you pick which of the four islands you’ll visit first, which takes some thought. The terrain conditions on each are fairly consistent: For instance, you’ll always see breakable ice and freezing storms on the wintery island, water and flammable foliage in the green island, dunes that can spawn dust clouds when hit and lightning storms on the desert island, and acid pools and conveyor belts all over the tech island. But the diverse set of enemies and the boss you’ll face are randomized each game, so you have to consider which ones your squad is best equipped to counter. I absolutely hate the slugs that launch spider eggs that first entrap any units adjacent to it and then spawn an extra enemy you have to deal with, so I avoid those until I’ve upgraded enough to improve my odds of dealing with them. And if I’m using a squad that doesn’t deal a lot of direct damage, taking on the dividing blob boss early rarely works out well. You can improve your chances considerably by avoiding those tougher battles until you’re ready.Once on an island, you pick which of the regions to fight in based on their risks, side objectives, and natural hazards, and also which ones you need to complete to unlock access to others you want (because you can only attack an adjacent territory). Because you can only fight five battles on each island before the boss appears, you have to make sure you’re picking wisely: do you want to go for as many upgrade points as possible or focus on gaining power for your grid (effectively your overall health) as a buffer against taking damage later? And is it worth taking on tougher missions to try to do both at once?Of course, the battlefield is where things get really interesting. Enemies always move first and telegraph their attacks, making every turn a clever puzzle about how to prevent monsters from striking vital targets, or, better yet, to redirect their attacks back at their allies by nudging them around the map. The order of operations can make or break your move; holding the Alt key will expose the order in which enemies will attack, so you can set up situations where it may appear as though the enemy is still threatening a target but you’ll know that another enemy will be tricked into killing it for you before it gets the chance to attack. At the same time, smacking an enemy will often move them to another tile (depending on the type of attack) and if you didn’t take that into account you can easily block yourself from making another move you had planned. And there are always unforeseen circumstances until you’ve mastered everything: maybe you didn’t account for the sand dune on a square that, when attacked, creates a dust cloud that makes it impossible to attack from that position.So it’s great that you can undo as many moves as you like until you attack, and once per mission you’re allowed to reset time to the start of the turn (unless you’ve brought Isaac Jones, who gives you a second one). That allows for at least some limited save-scum experimentation before you’re committed and makes learning tough lessons sting considerably less than they would otherwise.But because the civilian buildings on the tactical maps actually represent your overall health - called the power grid - and enough damage to them will end your run, protecting them can be more important than the survival of any mech. That means it’s usually better to absorb damage yourself, even if it means one of your mech pilots will be killed and replaced by an AI that can’t be leveled up (which would otherwise confer random benefits like increased movement range or extra hit points). Learning when to sacrifice a mech by placing it between a threat and civilians and when to take the hit to your power grid is part of Into The Breach’s elaborate balancing act.Civilian buildings are also the only place in Into The Breach’s combat where randomness comes into play, in that they have a chance to resist taking damage when hit. The odds start at a low 15%, but can be increased by earning more power after maxing out your power grid meter. Everything else is certain: there are no critical hits, no unexpected misses, and no events that aren’t telegraphed a turn in advance. That makes it feel almost entirely fair, with the one unpredictable thing being a chance for something to work out in your favor.Into The Breach’s quick mission maps aren’t randomly generated, but there are factors that make them feel different each time. For one, a wide variety of side objectives, such as protecting a train that moves across the map, using an acid launcher to destroy all the mountains on the map, or freezing and protecting a pair of hostile robots help keep one from feeling too similar to another. Other maps have natural hazards you can use to your advantage, like a tidal wave that wipes away an entire row of the map each turn (which you can bait or shove non-flying enemies into to kill them, but won’t damage your mechs), lightning storms that destroy anything on four randomly chosen tiles each turn, or ice storms that freeze anything that happens to be standing in a large area at the end of a turn. There’s also the chance for a Time Pod to crash-land on the map, challenging you to either collect them or prevent the enemy from destroying them before the mission ends to earn rewards like new abilities, extra upgrade resources, or new special pilots. Because a mission usually only lasts for five turns, there’s a lot of pressure to accomplish all its objectives in a short time.Since you only ever have three mechs on the field (unless you equip a small deployable tank, or in certain missions where you’re defending weaker friendly units) every battle is a struggle to keep from being outnumbered by the enemies who are constantly emerging from the ground. If there are five enemies attacking and only three mechs responding, that means two of your three mechs must come up with ways to stop two enemies - and that’s not easy. That gives rise to situations where you have to make tough decisions on whether you want to save a civilian building, strike a killing blow on an existing enemy, or prevent a new one from arriving on the battlefield by parking a mech on a spawn point. You take a point of damage, sure, but that’s a small price to pay for one less enemy to deal with next turn.Some situations can feel like no-wins, especially when the enemy AI decides to ignore your mechs and concentrate all its fire on buildings, which can’t be moved out of the way. You can predict where they can move by clicking on them during your turn to see their movement radius, but what they won’t always do what you expect. In those cases, “winning” becomes mitigating the damage as best you can, and because you can still win a partial victory even if you fail one objective it’s not the end of the world. But often, what at first seems like certain doom can be solved, and that’s the best feeling in Into The Breach.At the end of each island, you spend the resources you’ve collected on buying and powering up a randomly available assortment of upgrades that can dramatically change the way your mechs behave. Many are drawn from the other mech teams, letting you mix and match to create hybrid units, plus an assortment of other powers like the ability to hit every enemy on the map once per mission or a passive ability that causes civilian buildings to create a force field after they take damage to prevent a second hit. Like with FTL’s randomly stocked stores, this setup forces you to think and improvise as you play the hand you’re dealt instead of repeating the same successful strategy over and over, and adds terrifically to replayability.One opportunity that Into The Breach feels as though it misses is that there’s not much dynamic storytelling going on, beyond some contextual chatter from your pilots and the governors of each island that celebrate individual victories or lament losses suffered. Each run feels pretty much the same as far as story, which - if you compare it directly to the similarly structured FTL - makes them a little less memorable. The alternate-timeline wrapper that lets one experienced surviving pilot warp back in time and join your next run (whether you win or lose) gives it just enough flavor for there to be what feels like a distinctive Into The Breach universe.The two-phase final mission is a little anticlimactic in that it’s not that different from the boss battles you’ve already fought, and follows a very similar pattern each time. It’s definitely not easy - it took me over a dozen attempts to reach and finally beat it, including several times when I came within a single turn of beating it, only to fail - but having now done it a few times, it’s starting to feel like the most routine part of Into The Breach. Its saving grace is the fact that by the time you get there you’ve likely geared up your squad with significantly different abilities, so at least the way you fight it is different.I must also mention the musical score by FTL composer Ben Prunty, which is very similar in its low-fi electronic style. It’s also similar in that it’s fantastic at setting a sci-fi mood, and I could listen to it all day without it ever getting repetitious.
Fe Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/02/15/fe-review|For a game about communication, Fe can often be unclear. Its wordless, visually striking journey is filled with charming creatures to sing with, but its 3D platforming world can sometimes feel aimless. And while I enjoyed learning its musical languages, the short trip it took me on left me with the impression that Fe missed most of its best opportunities.You play as a small, fox-like creature called a Fe, but what you’re doing in a forest under attack by strange robotic creatures isn’t entirely clear. The whole idea is to sing to form bonds with different animals, and eventually learn to sing their languages as well. Harmonizing with another creature is a cute moment, even if the process doesn’t really change at any point throughout Fe. Bonding with a dozen little lizards so that their mob would follow me around and excitedly sing along as I serenade other creatures can be extremely charming.But beyond the singing, Fe is first and foremost a 3D platformer, and it’s resoundingly average in that regard. There generally isn’t much challenge to the obstacles put in your way, and your character can often feel slow and a little clunky instead of spry and fun to control. That makes the times I did miss a jump and had to do a section over pretty frustrating - it wasn’t all that rewarding to complete the first time around, much less the second.The major exception to this is Fe’s tree climbing, which is snappy, adorable, and a lot more fun than just walking around. You can scamper up nearly any tree with a series of lightning-quick hops, then leap from them for extra distance. Fe’s best platforming moments were generally best when it leaned into this ability. One sequence had me leaping between trees that were growing out of an enormous creature walking around the map. It was wonderfully reminiscent of Shadow of the Colossus, but was also brief and the only moment like it.Fe uses a lovely mix of polygonal landscapes with washed out, monotone color schemes that set it apart from other recent platformers and make its forest feel strangely mystical. But while those colors shift from area to area, the environments themselves don’t change nearly as much. As a result, the distinct style that makes Fe so pleasing to the eye at the outset quickly begins to feel a bit one-note and repetitive.The levels are nearly all just mountainous piles of rocks, plants, and rivers that would be hard to distinguish if it weren’t for the color shifts. More of the same isn’t necessarily a terrible thing, but it made me wish there were more drastic differences between areas. The only one that really distinguishes itself is the snowy section which has icy slopes and a lot less vegetation, but it’s definitely the exception rather than the norm.While Fe is a relatively linear game, each area has lots of nooks and crannies to explore, some of which hide collectibles that you can use to unlock new abilities. I was excited to hunt for these at first, but my patience wore thin before long. The similar environments combined with the slow movement and generally bland platforming challenges discouraged me from really wanting to explore to the fullest, and made the idea of going back through an old area with my new abilities and songs more tedious than exciting - especially when abilities like the run felt like it should have been there from the start.Fe is pretty short as well – it only took me about three hours to complete. After beating the story, the map opens up and you can see how many collectibles you’ve missed in each area. It would likely only take me another couple hours to get everything Fe has to offer, but I’m not left wanting to.If there’s a place Fe really stands out, it’s in its audio. While the visuals don’t hold onto their shine as much, Fe sounds stellar the whole way through. Its music is passionate and beautiful, adding a sense of wonder to the forest you are running through. The six different singing voices you can find are also charming and unique, with different tones and inflections as you sing softer or louder.Those voices play into the platforming in that forming a bond with an animal will allow it to sing for you if you haven’t learned their song yet, and each new song allows you to use a specific plant that helps you get to new places. For example, the green bird song opens up a plant that lets you pick up its seed and throw it at destructible walls, while the orange deer song will open a flower that boosts you into the air.I liked the idea of switching between songs to affect the platforming challenges in front of me, but this system is never really used in interesting ways. The plants rarely ever need precision or timing to activate, so tapping the sing button to open one is pretty much just busy work. That undermines the concept that you’re really interacting and communicating with the world around you.Fe tries to be subtle while telling the story of that world, but it does so to its detriment. Backstory is almost exclusively told through slow, wordless cutscenes that come too frequently and don’t really explain much. These cutscenes are viewed through collectibles that are put more directly in your path, so they can be skipped entirely if you want, but then I’d have even less of a clue as to what I was trying to accomplish. The story I did piece together was intriguing, but was never clear enough to get me invested, and its finale was downright confusing as a result.I can tell Fe wants to be one of those games that lets you discover its mechanics and story on your own, but its environmental cues aren’t clear enough to do that successfully. As a result, tooltips and hints pop-up with surprising frequency, which seemed at odds with the otherwise wordless approach. This actively hurts Fe’s atmosphere at times, especially when the guide bird appears to draw you a path to your next objective if you sing at max volume for a second or two.Map waypoints can be turned off in the main menu, but this bird can’t. Honestly, though, Fe’s objectives aren’t really clear enough to get by without at least one of those enabled. Even when I tried not to rely on waypoints and explore my way through the world, I’d often accidentally call the bird while noodling around with different voices. That made me stop singing for fun as much (because I didn’t want to accidentally spoil the path for myself) and that seems antithetical to the entire idea of Fe.
Gorogoa Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/01/31/gorogoa-review|I’ve never played a puzzle game quite like Gorogoa. It’s quiet and reflective: four drag-and-droppable panels act as small windows into a beautiful and dreamlike hand-drawn universe. But as you scroll, stack, layer, and zoom in or out of each scene, you get the feeling that the world inside each box is too vast and magical to be contained. Even the most static scenes burst with life, and when rearranged create new dynamics that reveal a fascinating dual nature (mysterious, sad, and even a little frightening) as panels merge together in exciting and satisfying ways. This fleeting tale takes about one to two hours to complete, but its absorbing and ambiguous story — an elegant exploration of spirituality in its most beautiful and destructive forms — will stay with you for a long time after.When first laid out, each set of seemingly unrelated images looks like random pages torn from an abstract comic or a child’s storybook. These moments are sometimes compact and ordinary: an apple hanging from a branch; a lantern on a pile of dusty books; a compass; a map; a photograph. Other scenes sprawl across two interlocking panels into wide landscapes or cluttered interior shots you can then click to pan through or zoom into to reveal new, sometimes much darker moments hidden just out of sight of the original perspective: a destroyed city, a gutted toy in a pile of rubble, a glyph of meteors raining down on a temple. Scattered and mysterious in their disconnection, this stage of each puzzle feels like a story told in the logic of dreams, as alluring as it is elusive.But as you explore, rearrange, and stack its panels — sometimes stripping layers off one image to create two distinct ones — its disjointed vignettes, symbols, and scenes start to come together in increasingly surprising ways. In one sequence, I stole the glow of a distant star to light a lantern. In another, I guided a character through a series of framed photographs by stacking doorways, rotating ancient ruins, and slotting the patterns of a porcelain plate into a floating cog. In these puzzles time and space aren’t bound by the laws of physics, allowing old and new to merge into a singular moment. I found myself reaching far into the past and out into distant lands to enact change on the present — a clever mechanism that fuels the fresh and magical interactions behind each puzzle and acts as a bittersweet meditation on memory and loss. In this way, every exciting step in my journey also became a startling revelation about Gorogoa’s captivating mythology — small moments that play towards a larger, more intricate whole.Through its images, Gorogoa explores the nature and intersection of spirituality, mythology, and history – all things that can be messy and personal and hard to confront, but handled here with an impressively wordless elegance. In Gorogoa’s world, the small and nondescript live adjacent to the grand and the magical; not in their shadow, but as part of the very fabric of their reality. There’s a rich splendour woven through even the most mundane of its images, elevating the ordinary into something mystical and wondrous, and grounding its divine mythos into a world startlingly familiar.
Celeste Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/01/25/celeste-review|Occasionally, while playing Celeste, I’d get light-headed because I’d focus so hard on a sequence of jumps that demanded precise timing and perfect button presses that I’d forget oxygen was a thing my body needed. Trying and failing and trying again, getting a little closer each time, I let the beautiful art and adaptive music of the titular Celeste Mountain - alongside the passionate, relatable story told there - completely whisk me away.Despite appearing at first to be yet another retro pixel-art 2D platformer, Celeste is surprising in so many different ways. From the moment I took my first jump, I fell in love with the satisfying way its protagonist, Madeline, feels to control; soon after I fell just as hard for the charming world she inhabits. But Celeste also caught me off guard with a relevant and emotional story about the pressures of modern life. What’s remarkable is that the story isn’t told in the background or overlaid on top of the action with constant interruption, but seamlessly and thoughtfully blended into the level design using both subtle themes and overt conversations. That’s especially astonishing in a genre not known as a vehicle for such delicate messages.That’s the bigger picture, but every corner of Celeste is overflowing with charm. Its handful of characters are delightful and expressive, and the world they live in is teeming with small details. Smartly written dialogue is accompanied by silly, synthesized gibberish voices and animated character portraits that strikingly clash with the otherwise-pixelated art style, giving each character a distinct personality of their own. Little touches - like Madeline’s red hair turning blue when she’s spent her dash charge and then back again when it’s restored by touching the ground or touching a power-up, or that dash causing lanterns in the background to sway when she zips by them - make everything feel alive and dynamic.But Celeste doesn’t succeed on charm alone – it also nails the fundamentals of its genre. All of that character is wrapped around one of the most blissfully fluid, responsive, and fun platformers I’ve played since Super Meat Boy. For more than 20 hours of gameplay, Celeste has surprised me with consistently creative and fun platforming challenges and secrets that found unexpected depth from its relatively simple mechanics.Celeste’s controls are extremely simple, just three buttons and a joystick, D-pad, or arrow keys. You can jump, dash once through the air in one of eight directions, and cling to walls and climb up or down for a limited time, but the nuance in how you use these easy-to-learn moves is extremely deep. Subtle changes in how long you hold each button, the angle of your jump, or the timing of your next dash can vastly change where you end up. This can be as simple as holding jump to keep yourself in the air longer or as complex dashing just next to a wall then quickly jumping off of it with precise timing to get you significantly more height. Critically, these factors were firmly in my own control and felt like skills that could be mastered.Each of the eight chapters – a linear series of rooms that range in size from a single screen to a large side-scrolling area – have their own style, music, and a few unique platforming mechanics to interact with. The first takes place in a ruined city near the foot of the mountain and has platforms that speed along a track when you touch them (allowing you to launch yourself with a properly timed jump), while a later chapter is set closer to the peak, where winds will push you around and affect your speed and momentum. Every chapter feels distinct and different, which keeps Celeste from ever feeling stale.The music and sound effects, in particular, deserve special mention here for the amazing amount of life they add to each location. Simply put, Celeste has one of the best game soundtracks I’ve heard in years. It shifts with each screen, different instruments and variations fading in and out as the pace and intensity of the scene changes. The music pushed me along and slowed me down in harmony with the level design itself, and its connection to both the platforming and the story helped me connect more deeply with both Madeline and Celeste Mountain.Unlike many other 2D platformers, there is a refreshing element of exploration to the layout of each chapter in Celeste. You can rush straight from start to finish if you’d like, but destructible blocks and false walls often hide secret screens and diverging paths - and it’s not uncommon to find secret areas hidden inside of other secret areas. It’s not always easy to distinguish what’s a secret path and what’s just a dead end, which was initially a little frustrating, but there was usually some tell I could eventually learn to recognize - and the particularly well-disguised ones made going back to completed chapters to hunt for anything I’d missed more exciting.The most obvious reason to go looking for secret doors is the floating strawberries scattered throughout Celeste. Collecting them is completely optional, and many are hidden in dead-end screens that you could completely skipped, but trying to grab them provides some of the best platforming challenges available. Oftentimes, jumping from one side of a screen to the other can be relatively straightforward, but doing so while grabbing that screen’s strawberry along the way takes much more finesse. Celeste also throws a bone to the completionists among us here, because after you’ve beaten a chapter once you can pause to see a dotted line representing which strawberries you’ve found and which you’ve missed laid out in their rough order within that level, and you’re able to restart at set checkpoints further into the chapter to access them without too much hassle.Beyond the B-Sides, there are even more secrets to find in Celeste. The hardest of these tested every part of the skills it had taught me: they required a careful eye to find clues about the path leading to them, were challenging to reach once I found them, and some even presented creative riddles that took me days of thinking on to finally crack. On top of the six to eight hours it took to beat the normal levels, I spent nearly another 20 finding collectibles and completing its brutally fun B-Sides - one of which took almost three hours and 1,400 deaths to complete, but had me literally jumping out of my chair with joy at multiple points. So it’s remarkable that even after roughly 24 hours of playtime, Celeste still has so much more to offer.And through all this variation and excitement, the basics of movement don’t ever really change. Similar to the brilliant Super Mario Odyssey’s focus on Cappy, every part of Celeste’s design revolves around Madeline’s dash. It’s the anchor for everything else, and each chapter plays with it in exciting and surprising ways. My favorite of these were the special diamonds (and some other level-specific mechanics) that can refresh your dash mid-air, creating ultra-satisfying sequences where you barely ever touch the ground.Sometimes your dash will move pieces of the world around you, making me think harder about the exact spot and angle I needed to use it. Celeste also plays around with momentum, letting you do things like use those moving platforms to launch yourself to otherwise unreachable spots. Without spoiling anything, some of the later levels also play around both with empowering your dash ability and severely limiting it, which continues to provide unique and amusing challenges without ever straying from that elegantly simple three-button core.A few chapters put your knowledge of their unique mechanics to the test with “boss fight” style final sequences that turn up the pressure and force you to think and act quicker. There isn’t really any combat in Celeste, but these sequences still manage to be intense and frantic, and a great way to put a different kind of spin on its level design. They also tie Celeste’s story more directly into its platforming, with the emotion behind these sequences ratcheting up the pressure just as much as the mechanics themselves.Some of Celeste’s harder levels occasionally make it feel like a fighting game as well, asking you to move the stick in precise directions with tight timing. Dash up-right into a special orb that refreshes the dash, then swing the stick down-right before it spits you out in that direction, followed by quickly dashing right into a diamond and then again into another orb. Quick input chains like this can be forgiving early in Celeste, but demand perfection later. I love how high that makes the skill cap for precision movement (and I can’t wait to see my best times destroyed by speedrunners) but it can also sometimes make the absolute peak of Celeste’s hardest levels feel pretty punishing.That said, I haven’t found one I couldn’t eventually beat with enough practice. Every time I died I could feel myself refining my strategy just a little bit. I would slowly dial in the angle of a jump or the timing of a pause, all the while getting more consistent at whatever parts came before that tricky bit. I’d occasionally have a breakthrough in those tough spots as well, fundamentally rethinking how I was coming at a jump and making it much easier as a result, proving that Celeste’s platforming requires smart thinking along with quick control. It makes beating these levels feel truly earned and immensely gratifying.This is the type of game where you get better through doing and expanding your knowledge of the possibilities, not by powering up your character or getting new abilities. Growing and improving felt natural because Celeste is simple enough that it barely has to teach you its controls, but is still nuanced and complex in how you use them. After I had tackled a few of the B-Sides, going back to earlier chapters put that growth into clear perspective. They almost felt trivial compared to the new challenges I had faced in the meantime, and it reminded me how achievable completing Celeste’s story chapters really are amid the high skill cap of its end-game - which is great, because it’s worth playing even for those uninterested in pushing themselves further.Celeste’s story starts out cute, with quirky characters and a clear goal for Madeline: climb to the peak of Celeste Mountain. Even though its garbled dialogue voices are a bit silly at first, their changing pitch and intonation (and the shifting portraits that come along with those voices) make each character extremely emotive and relatable. The characters Madeline meets along the way are lovable and funny; and while all of that sets Celeste up to be quite light-hearted, its story actually tackles some very real and important subjects.Hidden under this challenging platformer’s adorable exterior is a game about depression and anxiety. It’s a hauntingly modern tale about being anxious and unhappy and never really knowing why, feeling like you just want to run away from how the world makes you feel. In this case, running away from social media and work and all the mistakes you’ve made takes the form of climbing a mountain, but really it’s just about doing anything crazy enough that it might shake you out of the rut you’re in.It’s a feeling that hit close to home for me at multiple points throughout Celeste, and one I’m willing to bet many others will relate to as well. But Madeline’s story isn’t all about running: it’s also about standing your ground in the face of the parts of yourself that scare you, and how learning to understand those parts is the only way to stop them from controlling you. None of these messages felt heavy-handed, and it’s all conveyed through the lens of a world full of magic and adventure, but its core message is very down to Earth.There aren’t many games out there that feature two characters having a candid discussion about what depression feels like, or that depict a panic attack as tentacles attacking your character. I certainly wasn’t expecting that from a pixelated platformer where you collect flying strawberries and can magically dash through the air, but Celeste blends its story beautifully into the arcade-y game that houses it, making me feel for its characters without ever forcing me to.As I read it, one of its chapters is a veiled metaphor for being in a bad or abusive relationship, while another is an allegory for how people can be consumed and trapped by social media. Maybe I'm reading too much into these levels, because those themes are thankfully never thrown directly in your face, but my interpretations of them were relatable and real either way.Even though the story feels like a core part of Celeste, much of the heavier dialogue can be skipped past and ignored if you choose, and there’s an option to skip every cutscene entirely. That means people who just want the white-knuckle platforming Celeste offers with none of the emotional baggage can easily have it that way. Alternatively, an Assist Mode can be turned on to make that platforming significantly easier, allowing you to do things like play in slow motion or gain more climbing stamina, so people who want to experience the story but can’t make it up the mountain on their own will have a chance to do so as well.That said, the way Celeste balances these two parts of itself by default is flawless. I cared deeply about Madeline’s struggle and empathized with her in a way I wasn’t expecting. That emotional struggle ties beautifully into some of Celeste’s better platforming sequences as well, occasionally pushing the pace of the level into a frantic rush that made my heart race along with Madeline’s - that speed and emotion being stoked by the soundtrack behind it.The strength of Celeste’s story and the honesty with which it tells it transforms this game from simply being one of the best platformers I’ve played this decade into one of the most important ones as well. It effortlessly sneaks hard conversations about emotional and psychological health - important conversations that games don’t often have - into a game that’s still a phenomenal amount of fun without them.
TLOZ: Breath of the Wild: The Champions' Ballad DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/12/12/the-legend-of-zelda-breath-of-the-wild-the-champions-ballad-dlc-review|If The Champions’ Ballad is indeed the last new content we see for Breath of the Wild, it doesn’t feel like much of a send-off. This web of new overworld trials and Shrines is strung together by some fairly throwaway backstory, and its rewards are minimal. And yet, as it came to a close, it was what I'd played, not the story I'd been told, that shone through. I'd just been given 8 more stellar hours of one of the best games ever made. This isn't a goodbye from Hyrule, it's a nudge to return there.That quest starts out by taking you back to where it all began: the Great Plateau (a.k.a. the most beautiful tutorial yet conceived) and transforming it into a much more dangerous territory. Handing you a new weapon, the One Hit Obliterator(!), the quest suddenly becomes a neat survival challenge - you kill everything in one hit, but everything kills you in one hit, too. And I mean everything - I spent five minutes running away from bees at one point.
WWE 2K18 for Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/12/09/wwe-2k18-for-switch-review|In my review of WWE 2K18 on the other platforms, I had a mostly positive experience with the still-solid wrestling gameplay but criticized it for not addressing the modes and features that needed the most work after WWE 2K17, and for the especially underwhelming MyCareer and Universe Modes. I gave it a 7.0, for Good. Unfortunately, the Switch version of WWE 2K18 is an inconsistent, buggy mess, and even if the wrestling was as strong as Mark Henry, it still wouldn’t save what is one of the worst ports in the Switch’s library.
Xenoblade Chronicles 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/11/30/xenoblade-chronicles-2-review|Not so long ago I would’ve balked at the idea of living inside a stomach. Yet, after dozens of hours of Xenoblade Chronicles 2, I've fallen in love with the kingdom of Uraya’s vibrantly colored forests and cascading, strangely tinted waterfalls. It’s but one of the massive living Titans that serve as floating islands or continents and home to the citizens of the ocean world of Alrest and the setting of this impressively large role-playing game. Much like Xenoblade Chronicles 2 itself, they grow more interesting the further you venture inside them.Figuring out which Blades to bring along is satisfying in a way that feels a bit like Pokémon. Each Driver can collect dozens of them, each with their own elemental alignments as well as special masteries for harvesting or interacting with objects in the world to open shortcuts. The Pokémon parallel may even be intentional, as Blades come in little ball-like crystals that must be unlocked.
Battle Chef Brigade Review |https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/11/21/battle-chef-brigade-review|This is where things start to get really interesting. You're given nine slots to equip items and ingredients to help you in each round, and equipping the wrong cookware or battle gear means you might not have the tools necessary to complete your objectives in the allotted time. Equipping damage multipliers, like stronger magic attacks or double daggers, to kill enemies in the battle segments faster rewards you with more ingredients. Using elemental cookware might give you a combo bonus or allow you to combine ingredients with ease, resulting in a more flavorful dish, but may also limit the types of gems you can use in a given recipe. It’s a smart system that rewards your skill in using different gear sets and planning ahead.It’s all wrapped together in a lovingly hand-drawn art style, with a particular attention to tiny details. Mina’s hair blows in the breeze as she charges through battle, pieces confetti slowly drift through town after a celebration, small things that go a long way to convey feeling. And, while there are scant few locations to explore, the Miyazaki-esque character design and animation impressed throughout.
LA Noire For Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/11/21/la-noire-for-switch-review|Especially considering it originally came out in 2011, I was impressed that playing through LA Noire on the Nintendo Switch amazed me all over again. From the top-quality voice acting and the still-unmatched facial animations to the multi-layered crimes to solve, the parts that really matter work great on the Switch. The old-looking and empty open-world parts in between, not so much.
Fire Emblem Warriors Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/10/24/fire-emblem-warriors-review|When I first heard about Fire Emblem Warriors, I was afraid it would be nothing more than the skins of my favorite Fire Emblem heroes lazily pasted onto a Dynasty Warriors template. It turns out that’s not true: this entertaining 20-hour adventure successfully combines many of Fire Emblem’s unique strategy elements with some good old-fashioned button mashing.Fire Emblem Warriors takes place in the Fire Emblem universe, but which one isn’t entirely clear. That’s because the story – which manages to be both bare-bones and bonkers – never bothers with details. There’s some gibberish about a pair of twins having to seal away an evil dragon, and something about gathering magic stones that heroes like Marth and Chrom just happen to possess after being sucked into another dimension. No, it doesn’t make any sense, but I honestly didn’t care why the valiant samurai Ryoma or the hilariously loquacious Owain magically appeared out of thin air. I was just happy to have them around to help me crush my opponents, which they do quite well.What sets Fire Emblem Warriors apart from other Warriors-style games is its focus on teamwork instead of a single hero curb-stomping swarms of enemies. Objectives like orchestrating a multi-pronged attack on enemy outposts or having characters simultaneously activate terrain-altering triggers that allow them to pass safely through poisonous fog require a more thoughtful approach than the usual “kill everything in sight.”Bigger operations also involve an avalanche of submissions, such as stopping enemy reinforcements or defending hapless villagers, so it’s important to keep an eye on every corner of the map to see what’s going on. Unfortunately, the minimap is so crammed with enemy and ally units it’s hard to pick out an individual target, which makes juggling multiple objectives at once a constant struggle against the interface. But when I did manage to complete all my objectives, I felt like the world’s greatest field marshal.When you dive in to control your heroes directly, there’s still plenty of satisfying button mashing (divided into weak, strong, and special “Warrior” attacks) involved. But thanks to the incorporation of Fire Emblem’s rock-paper-scissors weapon mechanic and Pair Up system (which allows characters to assist, defend, or team up with each other) it never felt simplistic or boring. I was always kept busy directing units around the battlefield or switching between them to experience their individual weapons and skills, almost all of which feel loyally translated from their respective games. Lowering an enemy’s defense with the Luna ability or using Fire Emblem Awakening’s resident tank, Fredrick, to mow down enemies with his horse felt fantastic. Using consumable materials dropped by enemies to add buffs to weapons or raise character stats was also a fun RPG addition that enhanced the moment-to-moment action.I just wish my heroes were a little more self-reliant. I was proud when they managed to take down an enemy fort or defeat a mini-boss with minimal input from me (because that meant I’d made a smart decision in sending them), but then they’d sometimes just stand around shuffling their feet instead of moving on, or even responding when attacked. I don’t want the game to play itself, but they could take a little bit of initiative. I can’t tell you how many times I hurled insults over a fort wall because I caught Camilla goldbricking or Tiki picking her nose.Playing Generalissimo while listening to rockin’ renditions of classic Fire Emblem tunes is fun, but that doesn’t mean you can just headbutt your way to victory. Combat gets a lot more challenging in the back half of the story, especially if you ratchet up the sliding difficulty gauge to hard (which, notably, features Fire Emblem’s signature permadeath for added consequences to your actions). That’s when I really appreciated History Mode, a set of optional maps taken straight out of Fire Emblems of yesteryear and stacked with some truly hard-hitting baddies (to say who would spoil the surprise). It’s a nice big playground where you can enjoy hack n’ slash to its fullest with fun time trials, acquire extra Master Seals to unlock a character’s full combat abilities, and earn extra gold and experience by battling enemy waves in Arena Mode. And if you still feel like you need to do more grinding or missed the opportunity to unlock extra character buffs by collecting mural pieces from Anna’s traveling merchant shop (which temporarily appears on the battlefield once you’ve met certain combat conditions) you can use Free Mode to revisit old campaigns. It’s all designed to make grinding less of a chore, and it works.It’s also hard to be bored in the face of so much wonderful fan service. Fire Emblem Warriors features well over a dozen characters from Fates and Awakening, as well as the original Fire Emblem. I loved watching Chrom and Robin reunite after forging a strong bond on the battlefield, even if it was just to exchange a few heartfelt words about never giving up in the face of overwhelming odds. It’s these heartfelt moments that make the series so enduring, and while their interactions were rarely deep, they were still fun to watch.I was also charmed by the art style, which translates the traditional 2D art of Fire Emblem into 3D beautifully. The world pops with color and the character models look great. The maps are fun to explore thanks to treasure chests and item-filled jars strewn about the battlefield. There’s also a nice option to prioritize visual fidelity or a smoother framerate, although I didn’t see any major performance issues in either setting in either handheld or docked mode. I did notice that the Switch struggled during the fun but superfluous split-screen multiplayer mode, but it wasn’t anything game breaking.
FIFA 18 Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/10/10/fifa-18-switch-review|FIFA’s history on Nintendo consoles is shaky, with past releases often inferior, dated shadows of the games on PlayStation and Xbox. Unfortunately that trend continues with FIFA 18 on Switch, a passable on-pitch experience that is sadly stripped back and devoid of so many of the features that make the franchise currently so appealing.FIFA 18 on Switch is at its best when playing a straight-up match, but that’s largely because it offers little else. Mechanically it has more in common with last year’s game: the pace and control is similar, and as such, dribbling isn’t as responsive as it is currently on PS4 and Xbox One. Players feel heavy and are slow to turn too, so the sluggishness is even further exaggerated.In contrast, the ball feels light, like one of those cheap footballs you had as a kid. Hit it sweetly and it’ll rocket towards the goal, but it loses momentum quickly and long-range shots dip far sooner than expected.That said, if you do fire a shot on target, expect it to go in because goalkeepers are woefully inept. More often than not they’ll fumble the simplest of saves, and anything from distance seems to blindside them as they stand rooted to the spot as the ball sail past into the net.Obviously, it still feels like FIFA – the controls are mapped the same way and as such the method of attacking, defending and scoring is much the same across all versions. True, the prospect of playing a proper football game on the go is exciting, but when the experience is so inferior it’s not enough to forgive its shortcomings.FIFA Ultimate Team is included, but similarly is lacking some of the newer features. Squad building challenges and single-player draft make the cut, but they’re aimed at seasoned FUT veterans already familiar with the modes intricacies – who, in all likelihood, are already enjoying the better overall experience the game offers on other consoles.FUT’s entry-level mode, Squad Battles, has been left out, which is a crazy decision. Familiarising yourself with FUTs finer details by taking on teams built by other players without embarrassing yourself online seems like the perfect mode for bringing in new players on Switch and its absence is baffling.Similarly, multiplayer is a mixed bag due to missing features and hardware limitations. The most damning of these is the inability to play online matches against friends - a fault which apparently lies with Nintendo. Playing against mates is one of the main reasons for FIFA’s success, and without bragging rights at stake, competing against randoms online just doesn’t have the same appeal.Of course, you can still play against friends locally, by either connecting multiple consoles or huddled around a TV if you’ve enough controllers, and it works well. You can also split the Joy-Con and play in tabletop mode, but the reduced number of buttons severely limits how you play, with skill and finesse shots glaringly absent. Considering FIFA 18’s focus on the attacking, the inability to execute these fundamental plays impacts the experience dramatically, so it feels more like a failed experiment than a viable way to fully enjoy the game.
Golf Story Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/10/03/golf-story-review|Despite getting eight under par on one of the world's hardest courses, I suck at golf. At least, that's what the comedically mean NPCs in Golf Story keep telling me. This adorable RPG disguised as a golf game continually surprised me with the odd situations I was thrown into, whether it was fighting skeletons, stealing from snow bandits, and, every once in awhile, actually playing golf.Golf Story tells an odd but enjoyable story full of clever and funny writing. You meet expressive and lively characters on your journey for golfing glory, all of which talk to you through emotive dialogue bubbles that tilt, grow, or change pace with their attitude. That quest takes you across eight varied pixel art worlds, which range from regular grass courses to prehistoric valleys to island beaches, and even a spooky haunted graveyard.The story itself is amusing, if extremely thin. You, some random dude, decide to leave your old life behind and become a professional golfer, but no matter how well you do, just about every single character either hates you, thinks you're terrible, or both. That joke got a bit old by the end of the roughly 16-hour campaign, but thankfully the dialogue is amusing enough that it held me all the way through.The golfing itself is similarly simple, but a whole lot of fun even with its 2D perspective. Much like other golf games, hitting the ball involves timed button presses for power and accuracy. You line up your shot, adjusting spin and arc height to account for wind or tough terrain, then lock it in and hope you can execute the button presses to make your shot fly true.It’s just complex enough that it allows for an immense amount of finesse and control. Fairways are often small and hard to land on in Golf Story, dotted with sand bunkers, rough grass, and puddles. That gets more complex when the wind starts blowing harder, which has a very real impact on the ball. But tweaking where on the ball I hit, what spin to put on, and how much power to use can be extremely rewarding when a drive lands right where I want it.The weakest aspect of its golfing is how Golf Story handles slopes on the putting green. The pixelated art style is lovely, but effectively communicating subtle hills in isometric 2D is next to impossible. Golf Story opts to give you an arrow indicator similar to the one for wind, pointing in the direction of the slope and telling how steep the grade is: flat, light, medium, or heavy. I managed to learn to read that slope indicator well enough on shorter putts, but it becomes extremely hard at distance, and downright infuriating when a lofted ball lands on a seemingly flat green only to bounce unexpectedly due to the slope. I would have really liked an overlay on the green itself to give me a better indication of how the ball will behave.When you aren't golfing, you’re completing tasks for people that often have very golf-like solutions. There’s a linear questline to follow, with optional objectives and little challenges to complete along the way that earn you money and experience. Money is used to buy new golf clubs with unique effects that don’t always mean the newest club is the best, like an awesome putter that let me curve my hits. Experience is used to level up and boost stats like drive distance and accuracy, but these improvements felt much more invisible and didn’t affect my character in interesting ways like the clubs.People might ask you to collect certain items hidden in the level or go on odd foot races around the map, but more often than not they want you to hit a ball to a specific a certain number of times. Frankly, you do a lot more of those little accuracy challenges than actual golfing, and it gets a bit repetitive. The actual matches and tournaments against AI opponents are a lot more fun, giving me someone to pit my practiced skills against, but weirdly there are only about a dozen of them in the entire campaign.Even if they eventually get old, these odd jobs do add a bit of variety, and I like that they take place around the clubs rather than on proper courses. In fact, you can drop a ball and take a shot at literally anytime and anywhere. This let me set my own personal goals, like trying to ricochet the ball off a clubhouse roof and onto a nearby green. There's even an NPC who creates guerilla courses for you to complete, setting the paths over people's heads and diagonally across other fairways.I also really enjoyed hunting for all the little secrets hidden around each map, like rainbow holes that provide bonus experience if you can sink a ball. The first level had switches hidden around it, and hitting all them them unlocked a special mini golf course for me to play on. It was one of the cooler secrets to find, and earned me a special new club once I beat the course. But the idea isn't really followed up on, as no other world has anything as extensive as that.Another idea that never really paid off was introduced in the tutorial: Geese run across your shot path and force you to time your hit well to not hit them, and your dad warns you that worse distractions will be there in real tournaments. But there never are, and I was disappointed that this clever idea of dynamic hazards wasn't a real mechanic. On a few courses, Gophers and birds will grab the ball if you hit it too close to them, but those feel more like cute bunkers rather than interesting twists.Golf Story has a very welcome multiplayer mode that heartily scratches the competitive itch I was craving more of during the campaign. It’s a bit of a shame that it’s limited to two players and local only, but it lets you pick the type of clubs you’ll be using, adjust the wind and slope settings, and play on any of the courses you’ve already unlocked during the campaign. It’s a testament to just how enjoyable the golfing is that I’ll still be looking to return to its multiplayer after such a long single-player campaign.It’s also worth mentioning that you’re likely to encounter a few bugs. At one point I had to reload the game because I couldn't move after a cutscene, forcing me to replay one of the disc golf segments - which are an okay way to add variety, but nowhere near as fun as the real golf. Another time I hit a ball onto an uneven surface and watched it twitch around unable to settle for a full minute, preventing me from moving or even opening the menu until it did. Thankfully glitches like this aren't too common and definitely don't spoil Golf Story, but they are a noticeable blemish.
SteamWorld Dig 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/09/21/steamworld-dig-2-review|[UPDATE: I've now tested the game on all platforms - PC, Switch, PS4 and PS Vita - and the good news is they're all basically on par. The main difference, obviously, is that the Switch version can be taken on the road, which is nice. The same applies for PS4 owners with a Vita, mind you, thanks to cross-play functionality.]In the cluttered landscape of fictional post-apocalyptic worlds, 2013’s SteamWorld Dig was a breath of fresh air. A steampunk Western, it sends you digging deep into the earth, searching out precious resources to sell in the dusty, one-mechanical horse town above. It’s a glorious a tale of robot cowboys, mutant humans and mysterious technology. SteamWorld Dig 2 is very much the sequel I was hoping for. It has the same core gameplay loop of digging for riches, but leans further into platforming, puzzle solving and RPG elements, while boasting a gorgeously detailed aesthetic.In contrast to its predecessor, SteamWorld Dig 2’s world is not procedurally generated, and you can feel the handcrafted quality as a result. Dungeon layouts take devious pride in enemy positioning and cleverly hidden secrets. You’ll also come across cave entrances that take you to an impressive variety of self-contained challenges. These rooms make for a nice change of pace, as you go from literally carving out your own path through a massive sprawling world to being in a confined space with very specific solutions. These puzzles and platforming gauntlets aren’t difficult, but they’re satisfying, and net you cogs and artifacts – two of the most important collectables in Dig 2.Dig 2’s protagonist, Dorothy, doesn’t have much to work with from a story perspective. But much more importantly, she’s wonderfully nimble, and even the simple act of wall jumping to quickly ascend mine shafts feels great. New abilities unlock steadily, giving Dorothy more and more versatility. It’s not long before you’re shooting sticky bombs, pounding through previously unbreakable rocks with a jackhammer, and using a hookshot to grapple your way around the mines. And it doesn't stop there.Everything you use can be levelled up, too, allowing you to mine faster, shoot further and expand your backpack. This provides a constant sense of progress, and feeds into the compulsion to harvest and cash-in resources for gold. Each upgrade you purchase or blueprint you acquire then unlocks a new cog mod. These are perks that are powered by the upgrade cogs hidden around the world and sit atop your core abilities, allowing you to spec (and re-spec – nothing is locked in) Dorothy to suit your play style.Like taking on enemies with your pickaxe? You should equip Hunter’s Edge and Bounty Hunter, which give you extra XP and a cash reward for pickaxe kills, respectively. You could also equip Healer, which adds a chance of netting a bonus health orb from enemies defeated using the pickaxe. And then later in the game you’ll get Sharpened Edge, which deals extra damage with the pickaxe.Then again, maybe you’re all about the resources and want to carry more, find more and make harvested minerals and ores magically come to you, Ratchet & Clank-style. There are mods for all those. There’s even a mod to highlight all the resource tiles on the mini-map. And one to make hidden areas easier to find. And one that means you’ll lose less resources if you die.There’s a wealth of options, in other words, and the possibilities ramp up as you progress. This system really rewards players who are as thorough as possible, too. I loved systematically pillaging everything on the map; creating a maze of tunnels as I mined every resource tile, found every secret, and beat every puzzle. Plus, the more XP you earn, the higher Dorothy’s level, which then gives you a percentage bonus whenever you sell resources back in town.Dig 2 is all about the explore, harvest, upgrade, explore loop. Like the last game it has a risk-reward dynamic at play, as you need to come back to the surface to sell off your loot regularly – your backpack can only carry so much – but how often you do that is about how far you want to push it. The longer you stay underground the dimmer your lamp gets, and the more you collect the greater the loss if you die. It gets easier as you progress, however, as you can equip cogs to help keep your lamp glowing and unlock more ways to safely take out enemies.The fast-travel system also makes your health less important than it might be, as getting to a pneumatic tube entrance lets you hop back to town, instantly replenishing your health, water stores, and lamp. Thanks to that lifeline, I probably only died around a dozen times across ten or so hours of play. That’s not to say there aren’t tense times, of course. You’re not always close to a fast-travel point, so if the light is growing dim and your health is low you often have a choice: press on and hope to find one, or bail out and try to survive the long journey back to the last tube. Dig 2 also throws some great curveballs at you, whether that’s being pursued by hulking robots in a techno fever dream, or carefully navigating an acid swamp, where seemingly everything either explodes or melts the ground away.
Mario + Rabbids: Kingdom Battle Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/08/28/mario-rabbids-kingdom-battle-review|Mario + Rabbids: Kingdom Battle is an unanticipated game that’s full of surprises. Its XCOM-style, turn-based tactics gameplay is just about the last thing I’d have expected from either Mario or Rabbids, but its absurdist charm works against the odds and it’s far more difficult and meatier than you probably think. When you break it down, a lot of the challenge comes down to pure trial and error, but the moment of figuring out its tactical puzzles and chaining together a string of attacks delivers a strong shot of satisfaction.Mario + Rabbids obviously borrows liberally from the turn-based tactics genre’s current most prominent series, XCOM, most notably in its use of full and half-shield icons to represent full and half cover. But this style of turn-based tactics is vastly different. (Trust me: I went directly from XCOM 2: War of the Chosen to this, and it was quite a shock to the system – in a good, refreshing sort of way.) The way your three-person team works together, bouncing off each other and using complementary special abilities to maximize movement and damage, is a distinctive idea that forces an extremely aggressive playstyle and incentivizes keeping your team mostly together to make the most of their unique abilities.There are a ton of good combinations to work with within the eight-character roster, though the mix-and-match opportunities are hamstrung by a couple of arbitrary-feeling restrictions: Mario must be the leader of every party (fair enough, his name’s on the box after all) and you must have at least one Rabbid character. That last one was a roadblock for a lot of my best ideas, which probably means it’s there to prevent unbalanced things like having three characters taking turns going on reaction fire and ensuring that no enemy movement goes unpunished during an ability’s cooldown phase.Some of the difficulty spikes are really nasty, and Mario + Rabbids knows it. You can tell because at the start of every fight you’re asked if you want to play in Easy Mode, which gives you extra health. But even with that boost I wouldn’t call some of these “easy,” because if you’re getting slammed hard you’re probably not going to be saved by a few more hitpoints. You really have to understand how the mechanics work to win, which is a good thing unless you’re just learning the ropes. It makes me wonder why Ubisoft didn’t set up a “normal” mode between “easy” and “hard,” thus letting more people have a good time on their first attempt and avoiding the appearance of passive-aggression in offering a crutch for the poor baby gamer who can’t keep up.There are also several levels that have a strong gimmick, like the Chain Chomp who attacks whatever’s nearest to it or fireballs falling from the sky in pre-designated locations. I wish there were more of these toward the end of the campaign, but overall it does a good job of mixing these special conditions with the normal ones like kill everything, get at least one of your team to a goal zone, and escorting an unarmed VIP through a gauntlet.Mario + Rabbids also comes with a few co-op levels that are unlocked as you finish each of the visually diverse worlds, though the concept of local co-op is a little silly in a turn-based tactics game because it’s no different from passing the controller back and forth between two people. Those levels do give you four characters instead of three, though, which opens up the tactics a little – but it just makes me wish I could’ve done that in the campaign in single-player. If you don’t want to wait for someone else to play with you can always play both sides yourself, holding one Joy-Con at a time like a sad person. Which I have done.
Overcooked: Special Edition Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/08/01/overcooked-special-edition-review|A well played round of Overcooked feels like dancing in a graceful ballet, except missing a step means your burger burns, the kitchen lights on fire, and a raccoon in a wheelchair plummets into a lake of lava. Actually, maybe it’s nothing like a ballet (although this gives me an idea for a fantastic ballet). But working with your teammates as a well-oiled machine to produce food for an insatiable demon is as rewarding as it is challenging. Overcooked remains one of the most fun couch co-op games I’ve played in years, despite some port problems that keep the Special Edition on the Switch from standing as the definitive version.The local co-op cook-em-up poses the herculean challenge of asking up to four people to work together for three full minutes at a time, performing relatively simple cooking-related actions to fill food orders. It’s practically a two-button game: one to pick up things like ingredients, pans, or plates and the other to chop, cook, or wash them depending on the station you are standing in front of. But combine those simple controls with the stress of a ticking timer and cleverly designed levels made to mess with you at every possible turn and Overcooked becomes blissfully frantic.Every stage is tailor-made to disrupt whatever game plan you may have, forcing your group to move around the map instead of just manning a single station for the whole round. The impulse at the start of most levels is to assign everyone a job – someone focuses on chopping, another person on cooking, while another handles moving plates and cleaning dishes. But what do we do when the pirate ship we’re cooking on shifts, causing the serving tables to slide, and suddenly the dishwasher is blocked off from the sink?Those problem-solving moments are exhilarating, forcing me and my teammates to swap roles on the fly without letting everything falling apart. That gets harder as stages get more elaborate and start involving more spectacular things like jumping between moving trucks or an earthquake literally splitting the kitchen in half.Its unexpected and downright strange level design keeps Overcooked fun all the way through the 40+ stages. There are icy levels that ask you to slip across frozen rivers, large lava pools with your cooking stations spread across drifting rocks, and eventually even shifting kitchens in space. The included Festive Seasoning DLC levels proved to be some of the hardest available by introducing stew, a significantly more complex meal to prepare when you are juggling five different orders with varying recipe lists. It pushed my and my team to figure out how to be more efficient with our actions and communicate better.Overcooked gets more enjoyable the more people you have playing it, up to the max of four. It’s a wonderfully ridiculous mess with three or four players that still somehow has room for strategy, but plans can be calmly executed as a more tactical game with only two. Playing alone, on the other hand, you have to control two chefs by yourself, swapping between them to multitask. Simply put, Overcooked just wasn’t very much fun on my own – it turns into something more like an RTS than a party game and loses nearly all of the levity I usually love it for.Because of that it’s a bummer that Overcooked doesn’t have online play, but, to be fair, even with voice chat it wouldn’t be quite as much fun without the frantic shouting that’s only possible when sitting right next to your teammates. Equally disappointing is that Overcooked: Special Edition doesn’t take advantage of the Switch’s capability for local wireless multiplayer across consoles either, which it would have been well suited for.On top of that, the transition to Switch seems have introduced a few other problems I wasn’t expecting, the most glaring of which is its framerate. Overcooked is a colorful and fun-looking game, but it’s not so intensive that a system that can run Zelda: Breath of the Wild should have problems running it smoothly. Yet the Switch version often runs at a noticeably low framerate, whether it’s docked or undocked, in a level or on the map, and with any number of players. Thankfully it doesn’t fluctuate or spike lower, but it’s still an annoying distraction in a game that rewards quick and precise movements.The controller rumble is also legitimately busted. Your controller will shake when you do things like chopping and washing, but for some baffling reason every other player’s controller will also rumble along with your actions. So if I’m chopping while using the left Joy-Con, my teammate using the right one will also feel that shake, and vice versa. That makes it all but useless as feedback to your actions, and outright confusing for newer plains.These problems don’t ruin Overcooked’s Switch port, but they are distracting blemishes especially after having played a version without them. Even with the DLC included, I’ll undoubtedly be setting up the PC version (or at least the PS4 or Xbox One versions, which both run at a solid 30fps) next time I’m playing with friends at home thanks to the smoother framerate. On the road, of course, I’ll be grateful to have this with me.
Splatoon 2 - Final Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/07/24/splatoon-2-review|It feels as if the paint had just begun to dry on Splatoon after its release on the Wii U in 2015 when Nintendo applied a fresh coat and relaunched it with Splatoon 2 on the Switch. That may be why this sequel feels less like a whole new game than a new version of the first one that rolls up the best post-launch updates to the colorful and adorably non-violent team-based shooter and adds some new toys. Of course, considering the first game is a lot of fun, that’s not necessarily a bad thing, especially if you missed it for lack of a Wii U. And despite some questionable choices that can leave you trapped in matchmaking purgatory, the addition of a standout and clever take on a co-op horde mode provides some seriously addicting fun that has me coming back for more.Like its predecessor, Splatoon 2‘s emphasis on using vibrant, ink-based weapons to splatter both enemies and the ground alike in your team color to control territory makes it a distinctive kind of visually rewarding fun. Controlling the ground is more than just a way of keeping score, though – you’re far more mobile in your own territory, creating lots of opportunity for strategies around creating a highway to an objective and cutting off your opponents, and also setting up areas to submerge into the ink and replenish your ammo. The key to victory on the eight distinct and symmetrical maps currently in rotation often lies in being aware of terrain, ink management, and the opposition’s plans.Between the original arsenal, the guns added in post-launch updates, and the new ones introduced in Splatoon 2, there’s plenty of ink-based weaponry to choose from, and yet each type has distinct uses. There’s the fast and furious Inkbrush that covers ground quickly, contrasted with the Slosher that manages to turn a literal bucket of ink into a deadly close-range weapon. One of my favorites of the new batch is the Dualies, dual-pistol style weapons that have a great rate of fire and also let you quickly dodge-roll when firing to strafe enemies and release a concentrated burst of ink. There’s also a brand-new array of special weapon powerups, many of which work well with proper coordination to break stalemates. The protective Ink Armor shields your entire team from harm, while the Tenta Missiles can lock onto and fire a salvo of ink strikes on multiple enemies.Going hand in hand with Splatoon 2’s wealth of weapons is a set of gear that provides both style and bonuses in combat, with the added twist of over 20 random secondary abilities that unlock after you’ve battled with them equipped enough times. These range from practical effects, like increasing ink recovery rates, to highly specialized abilities that can track the enemy who last splatted you or players you’ve recently hit. Obtaining new gear is a smoother process than in the first game, too – you can now order any gear you’ve seen on other people in-game using currency earned from battle, though the abilities attached to yours might not be the same due to random generation. Paying to scrub unwanted extra traits to make room for new ones leaves chunks of those abilities behind to apply to other gear, letting you mix and match from your inventory, or you can try your luck at unlocking different bonuses to replace the old ones that better align with your playstyle. This is a good way get value out of gear you earned but don’t plan to wear: by scrubbing enough ammo-conserving bonuses from gear I wasn’t using, I was then able to apply that trait to my favorite jersey (for a hefty price). Offering the chance to craft the perfect gear for your playstyle to give you a better edge in the more competitive Ranked Battles has kept me more invested than I was in the first Splatoon.With a world this colorful and fun, it’s great to see how much better people and places look on the Switch. Characters like the weapons dealer Sheldon and clothing merchant Jelfonzo look better than ever with more detailed models and textures, and the various forms of street art and graffiti scattered around the maps pop. The ink itself shimmers and glints with shiny flecks. Despite it all, Splatoon 2 never failed to maintain a smooth 60 frames per second in battle even with ink flying in all directions in a fully populated eight-player match. In handheld mode, things look great, and the option to set sensitivity for both modes of play helped immensely when switching between handheld and docked mode. I actually ended up swapping between motion and non-motion controls with surprising ease (though not being able to use the control stick to look up and down with motion and controls does take getting used to every time).Splatoon 2 brings back a very familiar and simple 32-mission single-player campaign that, with some exceptions, follows the style of its predecessor almost to the letter. There’s a fair amount of hand-holding and will only take six or so hours to run through and find most collectibles, but missions provide some pretty fun ideas to play around with. There are places to stylishly grind on ink-rails like a squid version of Tony Hawk, and elsewhere you can lure giant, ink-vacuuming Squee-G robots into your enemies’ path. Spraying ink to activate expanding sponges or moving platforms gives it a light Super Mario Sunshine feel, but it rarely challenges you the way co-op and multiplayer do. The most significant improvement over Splatoon is that the sequel’s campaign lets you try out each of the weapon types, which is a great way to learn about their potential and how they can be used in multiplayer before jumping online. This focus on weapon research greatly extends replay value, as you can head back into levels you’ve already conquered to discover new challenges based on the weapons’ strengths and limitations.Heading into Splatoon 2’s main lobby lets you queue up for an engaging variety of online modes. Each mode automatically drops you in one of two maps that change up every two hours, which keeps things feeling fresh and doesn’t let a map wear out its welcome as quickly as in other games, where the community often picks a favorite and plays it to death. The standard Turf War mode, which carries over from the original, is welcoming for beginners and veterans alike with the simple yet entertaining concept of competing to ink the most territory in three minutes. No two matches ever feel the same because the battlefield hotspots – dictated by the competing colors of ink – are constantly changing, and several times being at the right place at the right time was what narrowly pushed our team to victory. This is one case where I actually miss the Wii U gamepad – without the second-screen map or an always-on-screen minimap, you have to hold a button to overlay a map to see how things are going or jump to a teammate’s location. This means you’ll need to be that much more alert to the status of your team and the terrain, and finding a safe spot to check the map overlay took some getting used to.Besides Turf Wars, Ranked and League Battles are where more precise and objective-based modes await. There’s a king-of-the-hill-inspired Splat Zone, a tug-of-war style payload mode called Tower Control, and a spin on capture the flag where you carry a powerful but movement-impeding weapon to the enemy base called Rainmaker. Splat Zone is the most basic of the trio, and I prefer the modes where teams fight over a moving target like the mobile tower in Tower Control, and the Rainmaker weapon that was constantly changing hands. Even when both teams are working well together and locked in a tug-of-war for control, matches move at a quick pace, which prevents drawn-out stalemates. Even though Ranked Battles rotate between modes every few hours, I’m glad each mode has their own ranking system so I can see which modes I’m best at and where I need to improve.The only real problems I’ve encountered so far are the lobby’s matchmaking system and the lack of a between-match loadout screen. Like in most games, once you’ve picked your mode of choice you’ll be sent to a room awaiting seven more players to begin. The catch is that nobody can cancel out or do anything else (such as the minigame the first Splatoon gave us to kill the time here) until either the match fills up or the timer runs out a couple of minutes later. Even if your group does fill up fast (which we can assume will be more likely after launch) and you get to play a round, you're still left with the problem of being unable to swap out weapons and gear between matches. I don’t mind not being able to switch during a match because that makes you carefully consider your choices and commit to the role your weapon fills, and the matches aren’t that long to begin with. But after playing with a great group and leveling up, the last thing I want to do is ditch them just so I can put on a new pair of shoes.Where Splatoon 2’s single-player campaign gently guides you through Octoling enemies, the new Salmon Run mode is an excellent cooperative foil. As hilarious as it is addicting, this mode puts you and up to three other players up against three timed waves of relentless enemies while collecting a quota of golden eggs from boss creatures and depositing them in a basket. Unlike other horde modes, Salmon Run deftly uses Splatoon’s ink and territory mechanics to ensure you’re not only splatting fish but also struggling to maintain control of the ground as enemies try to stifle your movement. The Boss Salmonids you face are some of the most memorable enemies I’ve seen in a horde mode since Left 4 Dead, wielding trash as makeshift weapons and armor and shooting beams of ink from atop a tower of pots and pans. Their distinct looks help you assess threats quickly, which is essential because your team must neutralize them before being overwhelmed.When playing online, you’ll be given one of four random weapons to use for every wave, and I love how it challenged me to adapt and fill new roles on my team: In one wave I was sniping bosses with the Splat Charger, but in the next wave I had to clear a path to the egg basket with the Roller instead. Difficulty can be set when playing locally, and steadily grows when online thanks to the randomized nature of enemy waves and weapon loadouts, boss configurations, and special events like rising water levels or egg-stealing mothership invasions. Those shifting conditions kept me coming back to see what would happen next.Playing locally with friends is a blast – my teammates and I frantically screamed out boss names and locations of golden eggs to direct each other to counter problems and capitalize on opportunities. But this also highlights how key communication is to survival, something that doesn’t currently translate well in random online matchups, where you can only give basic callouts. Fortunately, with Nintendo’s new companion app you can create voice chat groups with friends on your phone - but there are some significant problems. While you can check out nifty details about matches and order more gear from your app, the voice chat system feels woefully lacking. You can only chat with friends in certain modes, and while chatting your phone cannot be used for anything else (even turning off the screen will mute all conversation). Given that the app won’t let you talk to friends outside of specific lobbies, and that I’m not a fan of having my phone battery drained by a screen that can’t be turned off, I’m much more inclined to use Skype or Discord to talk with friends.And speaking of bizarre catches: for some reason, the excellent co-op mode can only be played online on certain days for specific amounts of time – for instance, 5:00AM to 5:00PM – which is truly frustrating considering just how fun it is. After a fun weekend playing with friends, finding out I can’t play again for two days can get annoying, especially when I can’t discern any rhyme or reason to the Salmon Run schedule. Not being able to easily remember the next available slot time forces me to constantly check in-game for the next five openings. I get that Nintendo wants to ensure full rooms on the days Salmon Run is active, but this seems like a poor way to do it. I’d rather have the option to queue up with friends online or have a way to easily back out if nobody is around to play with (going it alone is pretty much a death sentence). On the days the mode is active, you can earn quick rewards not found anywhere else which is a nice bonus; if you choose to play locally you can play as much as you want, but it takes much longer to earn bonuses.
Zelda: Breath of the Wild - The Master Trials DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/07/03/the-legend-of-zelda-breath-of-the-wild-the-master-trials-dlc-review|Anyone who bought Breath of the Wild’s Expansion Pass likely did so on the promise of its second, story-focused installment. With several months to go until the Champions’ Ballad DLC, however, Nintendo’s offered something of a stop-gap in the form of a grab-bag set of additions to its bucolic masterpiece. It may not be precisely what fans are clamoring for, but that might be its strength, as The Master Trials offers a couple of very pleasant surprises.The headline act, without any doubt, comes in the form of the Trial of the Sword. A new challenge mode of sorts, the Trial draws its primary idea from Breath of the Wild’s best challenge - Eventide Island.That tantalising landmass draws most players, siren-like, across the sea to its southeastern shores, before promptly stripping them of all their items, and facing them against a series of challenges, without the opportunity to save. Eventide is magnificent, somehow cramming ideas from survival games and XCOM’s Iron Man mode into the game’s already near-perfect structure. It challenged players to forget about the things they’d earned and engage purely with what they’d learned. Utilising Breath of the Wild’s many overlapping systems became the key to surviving (and winning little more than the pleasure of a save point at its final Shrine).Trial of the Sword is Eventide on a grand scale. Provided you’ve earned the right to hold the Master Sword, you’ll have the option of plonking it right back into its pedestal and progressing through a series of 45 one-shot rooms, most of which are specific combat trials. You’ll begin with no armour, no weapons and no Divine Beast powers, scavenging what you can along the way. Die before you hit one of three checkpoints and you have to do it all again. Depending on your speed, that can mean anything up to a couple of hours’ progress can be lost if you’re not careful. This is truly something for Breath of the Wild’s endgame.The idea of centering an endgame challenge around combat - one of Breath of the Wild’s most simplistic features - might seem antithetical. That’s because combat is only the means of progression - the challenge comes from applying all your knowledge of the wider game. Sets of five stages work around similar themes, asking the player to engage with environmental conditions while killing off all of the stages’ occupants.One set takes place entirely in a thunderstorm, meaning you’re best off ditching any metal items you’re carrying (or even better off using them as lightning traps). Another sees you in a vertical wind tunnel of sorts, with enemies placed across floating platforms and almost all armed with bows and arrows, turning it as much into a test of your skilful paragliding as it is your slow-motion bow work. There are areas where you need to deal with constant cold without the clothing to withstand it, or simply defeat boss enemies with the scant resources you have left after all the preceding stages. Even its quiet interim stages (each one appearing after a mini-boss fight) are trials of a kind - you’ll need to turn what little food you have into the most effective possible recipes, and forage for as much as you can. Please, learn from my mistakes: lifesaving fairies run away if you sprint desperately up to them.Hitting each checkpoint in the Trial may offer a permanent 10-point damage buff to your Master Sword but, like Eventide, completing it all really is its own reward. It may not bring the sheer wonder of stumbling across the main game’s biggest surprises by accident - if you’re able to finish this, it will likely be because you’ve played enough to know how - but it condenses the mechanical joy of Breath of the Wild into a four-hour gauntlet. The upcoming story expansion is rightfully the most exciting post-release addition to the game, but it will genuinely have some trouble beating the pure, adrenal fun of making it through the Trial of the Sword.That sets an unassailably high bar for the rest of the DLC pack, but much of the rest of the Master Trials’ additions are certainly welcome, if not hugely significant.Hero’s Path, for example, takes the last 200 hours of your time in the game and presents it as a scrawled track drawn across the game’s map (just press the minus button and hit X to see it). Designed primarily to show you areas you’ve missed while exploring, it’s an extremely useful new tool (I almost immediately spotted a whole jutting landmass I’d never bothered to travel around), but it’s just as pleasant when used as a short-form replay of your time in Hyrule.There’s an argument to be made that - in its capacity as a navigational feature - Hero’s Path should have been included in the game from the beginning, but the ability to watch it trace its way around the map in fast-forward adds a different dimension. There’s an odd nostalgia invoked as you watch your journey flitting around Hyrule: a shrine detour you remember taking, the first time you retreated from the Hebra mountains to get something warmer to wear, those three to four hundred deaths in the Yiga Clan hideout. That feeling could only really be achieved when used in hindsight. Few are likely to forget their first run around Breath of the Wild, so it’s nice to have the game itself acknowledge that fact.The Travel Medallion is another new, utilitarian feature that some will argue should have been in the game from the beginning. On this, I’m not as inclined to disagree. After you’ve found the medallion (following a short quest), it can be dropped anywhere, creating a bespoke fast travel point. It’s particularly useful for return trips to areas with materials to grind for, cutting out travel time from Shrines. Nintendo might argue that having it in the game from the beginning would have taken away from Breath of the Wild’s philosophy that players should have to interact with the world as much as possible, but adding the equivalent of a single movable Shrine doesn’t feel as though it would detract from that idea all too much. Either way, for those still on the hunt for the game’s rarest materials, this will be a boon.The weakest addition comes in the form of new clothing items, all of which are direct references to past games: Midna’s helmet from Twilight Princess, Phantom Guardian armour from The Phantom Hourglass, Majora’s Mask. Most useful of all is the Korok Mask, which shakes when you’re near one of the game’s 900 hidden Koroks. Perhaps better, however, is the Tingle outfit, simply because it causes almost every NPC to recoil in horror when you approach.Each offers a dose of fan service but, barring the Korok Mask, the effects of each clothing item are familiar enough - attack buffs, higher speed at night, and the ability to avoid being spotted by certain enemies are all abilities present on existing armour. They’re clearly more suited to new players than those who’ve already dealt with the worst Hyrule has to offer. Given how much time has passed since release, it’s unlikely that the first group is larger than the second, making each feel a little underwhelming when you pick them up.To compound that problem, to avoid simply giving you each item Nintendo includes a set of hints to follow. Those hints, it tells you outwardly, correspond exactly with various areas in the Hyrule Field region. Unfortunately, for anyone who’s spent a fair bit of time in the Field, it turns what should be treasure hunting into a dull trudge from obvious point to obvious point, intermittently turning on the Magnesis power to spot a buried chest. These items are teed up as legendary relics of a forgotten past - finding them half-buried in an old barn seems a tad underwhelming. Simply put, it’s not a great deal of fun to find the items, and they’re not all that useful when you do.Thankfully, there’s a final addition that adds a great deal more for those who’ve seen most of Breath of the Wild already. Only available from the main menu as a totally fresh start, Master Mode was previously referred to as Hard Mode by Nintendo, but it’s not difficult to see why it would opt for a more grandiose title upon release. This is a more creative increase in difficulty than most games’ upper levels.While allowing players only a single save slot and increasing each enemy type’s rank by one (red Bokoblins become Blue Bokoblins, for example) aren’t unfamiliar tactics, it has crueler ideas up its sleeve. Familiar enemy placements are disrupted, with new mobs ready to swarm you in unexpected places - not least with the addition of weird, floating platforms (held aloft, grimly, by still-living Octoroks) hovering above the Hyrule horizon. Plus, those enemies now regenerate health if you stop attacking them, and can spot you from further away.Nintendo’s clearly aiming to indulge those looking for a real New Game+ experience. Stronger enemies earlier on means that Link ends up better equipped than he would usually be, even before he leaves the Great Plateau tutorial area. On the other hand, the addition of what used to be the game’s hardest regular enemy, a Silver Lynel, in the Great Plateau speaks to how much of a challenge the mode will be. That there are entirely new, gold-ranked enemies (including Lynels) is a further promise. It won’t be for everyone (I guarantee some will throw in the towel after being killed by the game’s first enemy after 150 hours of play), but Master Mode is a fantastic way of adding a lot more by changing a little. That’s emblematic of the Master Trials DLC as whole.
Arms Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/06/16/arms-review|Ditching the more grounded world of Nintendo’s Punch-Out!, Arms is a far wackier take on the boxing genre. It’s an exciting face-off as you weave around incoming fists from afar, looking for that small opening to curve your powered-up glove straight into your foe or leap into the air for perfectly timed grab. Arms is bursting with fast-paced modes and colorful exploding gloves that make every fight a blast, and its stylish lobby system keeps me coming back for more.As you engage in cartoony fisticuffs with the eponymous stretchable boxing gloves, of which there are many shapes and sizes, the combat of Arms is easy to pick up. You can fight any way you please: with motion-controlled Joy-Con controllers, Pro Controllers, or even a single tilted Joy-Con. The motion-control setup works well enough, since instead of throwing huge punches and tiring yourself out, subtle jabs and tilts will get the job done. Tilting the controllers to move, curve punches, and block does take a bit of getting used to, and I had the tendency to unconsciously move my Joy-Cons at the wrong time. This led me to gravitate more towards the Pro Controller or playing in portable mode, using the analogue stick for precise movements and using triggers instead of buttons to throw punches.What really matters in every match is movement: if you aren’t constantly strafing and jumping to dodge the projectile-like punches of your adversary, you’ll just be giving the match to your opponent. Rock’em Sock’em Robots, this is not. Equally important is charging up your Arms to deal bigger, elementally enhanced damage, but it’s a risk because pausing to charge can leave you open to attack. There’s a great sense of give and take here: for every move you can make, there’s an equal counter, and the delicate dance of trying to outsmart your competitors can lead to some very tense moments. There’s also plenty of room for surprises, as just one match against a player who effortlessly dodged my attacks had me stopping to rethink my strategies and swapping out my equipped pair of Arms to try a different approach.Character abilities factor into every matchup. Each of the 10 fighters has two innate abilities, such as Ribbon Girl’s multiple aerial jumps or Spring Man’s deflections. Some of these abilities can lend themselves well to developing new tactics, but others, like the fast-jumping but incredibly slow-dodging Kid Cobra, just feel like they got the short end of the stick.The Arms themselves are all distinct enough that you’ll soon be able to spot which ones your rival has equipped and what they are capable of. While traditional Arms like the fiery Toaster are great for straight shots and breaking your opponents grab attempts, wide-arcing attacks from weapons like the Chakram and Thunderbird can flank from the sides.Most weapons can charge up to deal debilitating effects, although some felt a little more pronounced than others. Sure, having a wind effect to knock a fighter away from a powerup is nice, but not as nice as using electric attacks to completely shut down an opponent and leave them wide open to a grab, which does a ton of damage. Some types are rarer than others - giving them great unique appeal (Helix starts with the only blinding weapon, for instance) and even variants of the same weapon type feel more pronounced than a simple reskin when you compare the ice-encrusted Chilla to the gold-trimmed Bubb that doubles in size when charged.You’re given access to every type of Arm from the start, but they are locked to specific fighters. If you want to rock a Guardian Arms with Spring Man, for example, be ready to shell out the money earned from fights in a target-hitting minigame for a chance at your desired glove appearing for the right fighter (and you’ll still have to unlock the Guardian again for every other fighter you want to use it with). I was hoping there would be a chance to be surprised with Arms nobody had in their default loadout (thirty Arms is still a pretty diverse selection), but there are some interesting choices to be made mixing a fighter’s abilities with the unlocked Arms of another fighter. Pairing up Ninjara’s quick movements with some of the freezing and electric Arms let me capitalize on his speed that I couldn’t achieve with his default loadout.If you were worried 1v1 brawling would get boring, Arms does a good job of giving you plenty of alternate modes to choose from - and most every mode can be played solo or split-screen co-op, including the traditional 10-round Grand Prix campaign with scaling difficulty. The 1v100 mode gives you a lesson in endurance as you take on small groups of weak enemies until a final tough opponent. Modes like V-Ball, Hoops, and Skill Shot are nice diversions that are quick and concise, though getting walled off from your opponent by a large obstructing net playing explosive volleyball isn’t as fun or engaging as those that let you antagonize or otherwise go head to head. Getting tethered to another player in team battles was exhilarating, as I worked to defend my buddy from getting grabbed and timed rush attacks with the openings my partner created. That said, having the lock-on view constantly switching between targets on its own without my input got frustrating at times.The mode that really deserves a medal here is Party Match. This online mode transports you to a constantly shifting lobby area that’s almost as fun to watch as it is to take part in. Groups of up to 20 players (10 systems with two players each) are continually shuffled about as the lobby decides who should be matched up in the circles it creates. This means players rarely go too long without being placed or paired up with other fighters, and the lobby adapts to odd numbered groups by making frantic free-for-alls, grouping up against intimidating AI bosses, or letting local players take turns.Even when I wasn’t in a match, I was hungrily absorbing the clever layout of each fight taking place in the lobby – seeing the health bars drop, rush attacks trigger, and the timer wind down around the circle until the players were jettisoned out of the circle to seek a new match. Ranked Battles offer a little more structure, and I was happy to find friend lobbies offer a lot of customization to pick and choose what kind of matches the lobby would pull us into - including the ability to choose possible stages, modes, and how much prize money was needed to be declared the lobby winner.
Minecraft Switch Edition Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/06/07/minecraft-switch-edition-review|At this point, Minecraft is such a well-known game that reviewing its content in 2017 seems redundant. (For that, you can check out our reviews of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions and of Minecraft: Pocket Edition.) But with its recent release on the Switch the question that needs answering is how Nintendo’s portable console handles building these fantastic blocky worlds, and the answer is: pretty well.The Switch Edition of Minecraft takes the appealing portability of Minecraft Pocket Edition and adds the precise, comfortable controls of a console. The convenience of playing Minecraft on the go and easily jumping into online multiplayer with friends on their own Switch devices would make it hard to go back to other versions of if it weren’t missing an essential feature: voice chat. That makes playing with friends who aren’t in the room with you much less fun, since there’s no way to coordinate your efforts with the up to seven other players in a game. You can get that human interaction locally by playing two-player split-screen mode, but this works much better when the Switch is docked, because the screen is a little too small to play in handheld or kickstand mode with multiple people. It’s possible, you just might not be able to see very well.Lastly, I didn’t experience any noticeable slowdowns either in docked or portable modes, though it’s worth noting that Minecraft runs in 720p even while docked. Not that the resolution of these intentionally blocky graphics matters much, of course.
Little Nightmares Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/04/26/little-nightmares-review|Hide and Seek is a horror game. You run from a pursuer, hurriedly choose a hiding spot, then just wait – with only breath and heartbeat in your ears – for a pair of legs to pass your slim field of view. They stop. You stop breathing. They pass. You start breathing. And then they’re back, you’re caught, the game is over. It’s a design that horror games have always favoured, but where most shock by using the moment of being found, Little Nightmares captures something more nuanced: that creeping fright of waiting to be caught.If you were going to be dull about it, you’d describe Little Nightmares as a 2D stealth puzzle platformer. Guiding a tiny, raincoated character called Six from left to right through the sea-swaying innards of The Maw (an ocean facility with a slowly revealed, despicable purpose) is a matter of avoiding instant-death hazards and gentle puzzling about how to proceed – but it rarely feels as plainly mechanical as that. At around five hours long, Little Nightmares feels slightly too brief –- the implied sense of scale suggests there was surely more Maw to see than the route Six takes –- but that’s perhaps testament to how much fun Tarsier has with throwing ideas at us and leaving them aside once they’re done.Little Nightmares’ closest relatives are Playdead’s exemplary Limbo and Inside, not just because of its faint glee at the idea of a child in mortal peril, but in how cleverly it braids together puzzle design and storytelling. Every enemy, every room, every meat grinder you use to make a rope of sausages to swing from, contributes to the story of The Maw and Six’s seeming breakout. It’s quietly masterful (not least for a studio releasing its first original game) and never more so than in the giant, twisted figures of those trying to stop you proceeding. It must be said that, where Playdead’s blank stories encourage debate about metaphor and meaning, Little Nightmares’ wordless style is a little harder to swallow when the story seems more straightforward. Getting to know why Six is… the way she is (I’ll say no more on that) feels as though it would have added to the experience, rather than ruining any mystique.A nightmarish custodian who literally sniffs you out as his hideously long arms feel their way towards your hiding place; twin butchers, fattened and deformed by god knows what; the ghoulishly beautiful woman in kabuki dress that haunts Six’s dreams. Each owns a stretch of the rooms you need to pass through and, as you’re forced to watch their grim (if oddly mundane) business in hiding, each teach you a little more about just how bad a situation Six is in. All that’s left to do is creep past, outsmart them using the room around you or, most horrifying of all, realise there’s no fight, only flight, and be forced to simply run past in the hope they can’t catch you.Developer Tarsier doesn’t shy away from showing them in their full, grim glory. You know where your predators are and what they can potentially do to you at almost all times – you’re more worried about them knowing where you are. I don’t recall a single jump scare in the entirety of Little Nightmares’ runtime, but I know I yelped as a butcher wheezed and stooped to check under the greasy workbench I was hiding beneath, or as something chased me through a room neck-deep with shoes (an admittedly uneasy callback to Holocaust imagery). Six is trespassing on their property – the sense that they know the lay of the land in a way you don’t is overwhelming.The Maw itself is something like the world’s worst doll’s house, the front walls wrenched away and its themed rooms built to absurd dimensions – made to reflect a small child’s view of a giant, adult world. It’s lit like a haunted house, regularly forcing you to flick open Six’s only possession, a tiny cigarette lighter – but it’s more terrifying for not being abandoned. This place – with its nurseries full of restlessly sleeping children, curious packages transported by hook, and some truly disgusting visitors – is grotesquely functional. It allures as much as it repulses, adding up to make for one of the best gaming locations I’ve seen in years, startlingly new and painstakingly tooled to encourage cautious exploration (including some very satisfyingly hidden secrets).Its dioramas are beautifully drawn and wonderfully tactile, allowing you to build makeshift staircases out of gargantuan filing cabinet drawers or climb up craning, curling furniture to out-of-sight shelves. Smaller objects can be picked up and thrown, most often to no benefit other than being a nice way to take your mind off things as you enjoy some appropriately childish property damage. On a side note, I don’t think I’ve ever enjoyed the soft flumpf of jumping on a digital bed like I have in Little Nightmares.It’s a shame, then, that Little Nightmares’ primary problems are so boring. Its ‘2.5D’ set-up (Six can creep some way up the Z-axis in every environment) makes certain moments of precision platforming simply irritating, specifically when you jump slightly at the wrong angle and tumble unnecessarily into an abyss. Likewise, a few of its instant-death obstacles are the kind of trial-and-error puzzling that should have been left behind last decade. Couple that with inconsistent checkpointing and long load times (a trade-off presumably made to allow entire chapters of the game to be played seamlessly), and death can become more frustrating than frightening.There’s much more to enjoy, from the lovely way Six cradles her lighter while she runs to stop it going out, to “boss battle” sections that require you to outthink your potential captors across multiple rooms, constantly re-evaluating where they could emerge from – to the point where you simply cower in a dark place, just in case their will breaks before yours. It’s the quintessentially well-designed game; animation, sound, presentation, and puzzles each affecting the other in a constant, gorgeous cycle.
Mr. Shifty Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/04/25/mr-shifty-review|The heist at the heart of Mr. Shifty kicks off with an explosive bang, like a pulpy late-‘80s action movie. You play the role of a mysterious super-powered criminal whose nifty ability to teleport across short distances and punch unsuspecting foes in the face keeps Mr. Shifty’s momentum going despite a story that soon becomes forgettable (like a pulpy late-’80s action movie), but not through the awful slowdown issues in its final act.The best moments of Mr. Shifty made me feel like a complete, no-nonsense comic book badass. By using a combination of your warping ability and some quick melee reflexes you can take out a group of gun-toting security guards and beat them to a satisfying pulp before they can get off the one shot that would kill you if it connects, or you can get crafty and carefully guide a seeking missile back toward the turret that fired it. You can still sense vague feelings of badassery when you bypass laser grids or warp past unaware guards. The art direction uses heavy shadows on Mr. Shifty’s blue trench coat and environments, giving the colorful backdrops an inky, comic book vibe that fits into the overall tone.All of Mr. Shifty’s power is balanced out by the fact that a single mistake at any moment can still get you killed, just like in its clear inspiration, Hotline Miami. Death tosses you back to the start of a level, which isn’t a huge inconvenience, but some of the tough late-game levels of the 18-stage campaign will leave you wishing for a checkpoint or two. But you can avoid death once in awhile: by chaining together enough beatdowns you can build up a special meter that will automatically initiate a slow-motion sequence to let you save yourself from an enemy’s bullet. It’s a nice effect that bails you out of starting over and gives you another neat way to pummel bad guys.
Wonder Boy: The Dragon's Trap Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/04/18/wonder-boy-the-dragons-trap-review|A lot can change in almost 30 years of gaming, but a good platformer is forever. Initially released in 1989 for the Sega MasterSystem, Wonder Boy 3: The Dragon’s Trap featured all the hallmarks of the (then) up-and-coming genre. Now, the team at Lizardcube has recreated it in painstaking detail - and while The Dragon’s Trap’s design definitely shows its age, it still has a few wonders in store for us thanks to a solid foundation, aesthetic upgrades, and some much-appreciated updates to the original programming.Your character, the titular Wonder Boy - or, in a nice added touch of inclusiveness, Wonder Girl - is cursed by a robot dragon (because the ‘80s) and turned into a fire-breathing lizard-man/woman (again, ‘80s). To lift the curse, they’ll need to defeat more dragons to transform back into their human form and rid the land of their evil. It’s not a particularly compelling story, but given that it’s pulled from an era when “go left” was considered plot development, this bizarre backstory provides a lore-friendly excuse for the core mechanic.The gameplay will be familiar to anyone who ever picked up a Metroid or Castlevania game released before 1995, or, more recently, Ori and the Blind Forest. Beginning with next to nothing, you fight your way through several areas connected via a central hub, stabbing snakes,crabs, ghosts, and other assorted monsters to collect new equipment and hunt down dragons that serve as boss creatures. Making your way through each sector is a satisfying exercise in patient advancement. With limited health, I had to attack cautiously, striking at just the right moment after learning and avoiding enemy attacks, which made combat feel more like Dark Souls than Donkey Kong.After reaching and defeating each dragon, you’ll transform into new creatures with different abilities, such as a mouse that can climb walls or a fish-man that can swim, which in turn allows you to reach new areas and stab differently colored crabs, ghosts, and dragons. Oh, and ninjas, which don’t really fit the whole “Monster Land” theme considering that you start out fighting what’s basically a knock-off MechaGodzilla I’m not going to try to over-analyze it. Each addition grants you new tactics, which, without the advantage of modern popup tutorials, are fun to puzzle out while exploring each new location.The style of the updated art is somewhere between hand-drawn fan sketches and a Disney movie, which works well given the vague fantasy setting. The character designs, both of the various animal incarnations of our hero and the many enemies you’ll encounter throughout your four- to six-hour adventure, all exude cartoonish personalities that fit well into the ridiculous “story.” For example, a fire-spewing cloud that once just had vague dark shapes for eyes now sports a pair of cool-guy shades and a smug grin, making it extra satisfying to knock them out of the sky. Similarly, each of the environments are beautifully rendered and possess a unique feel and implied backstory, such as massive statues depicting ancient heroes or sprawling cities beyond what was once just “Forest” or “Desert.”This is especially evident when swapping back and forth from the 2017 art style and the “retro” mode, which allows you to experience Wonder Boy as it was initially released, complete with a chiptune soundtrack - which has been re-recorded as an orchestral score in one of the best musical adaptations in recent memory . It’s a cool and impressive feature - you can even input checkpoint codes from the original release - that really demonstrates the development team’s love of the original game, similar to what we’ve seen in the Monkey Island Special Editions and Oddworld: New ‘N’ Tasty.
LEGO City Undercover Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/04/05/lego-city-undercover-review-2|When we first reviewed LEGO City Undercover for Wii U in March 2013, we declared it great and awarded it an 8.0 out of 10. Here’s what we said then:What I had hoped for was some level of optimisation for the load times, but unfortunately this doesn’t appear to be an area that developer TT Fusion has given much love. While it varies marginally between platforms, LEGO City Undercover still features generally sluggish load times. Even the Switch version, which I downloaded digitally and have running off a high speed Micro SD card, can still take anywhere from 30 seconds to a full minute when transitioning from an interior to the open world, which is a lengthy period of time to regularly stare at a static screen no matter how much you enjoy the incredibly funky ‘70s wah-wah wocka-ing that accompanies it.
Snake Pass Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/04/04/snake-pass-review|The simple act of moving through the vibrant, colorful world of Snake Pass is as mesmerizing to play as it is to watch. This physics-based puzzle platformer uses a simple, intuitive control scheme to maneuver a snake up onto objects in a way that made me think about how to approach each one. Even when the camera couldn’t keep up or the stingy checkpoint system tested my patience, Snake Pass still kept me coming back to master its controls and reach its many well-hidden collectibles.What makes it feel distinctive to play is that you have to think like a snake to succeed. Since Noodle is essentially one slippery, elongated muscle, you’ll move slowly if you stretch yourself out too far and you’ll slip off of objects if you aren’t careful. You have to slither back and forth like a snake would to move forward quickly, and it made total sense. But conquering the 15-stage campaign is a tough, five-hour platforming challenge because you have to grasp moving around in such a nontraditional way.One you get your bearings, tricky sequences that involve hanging onto moving objects for dear life will be the most brutal test of your snakey skills. It’s seriously daunting platforming at first, but it only seems impossible. Once you learn to make small adjustments using the analog triggers on the controller, for instance, it gets much easier to cross structures. Overcoming these challenges gave me confidence to try riskier maneuvers like distributing my weight quickly across a hanging beam to then wrap myself around it.
The Binding of Isaac Afterbirth+ Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/17/the-binding-of-isaac-afterbirth-review|When we reviewed The Binding of Isaac Rebirth on PC and Playstation 4, we thought it was an amazing game and awarded it a score of 9.0. Here’s what we said then:“The time I’ve spent with Binding of Isaac: Rebirth has been non-stop fun and surprises, with just a tad too much frustration when I lose a rare item. But even when it slaps me down harder than I’d have liked, starting again is always a treat, because I’m likely to discover something new and darkly comedic. That’s plenty of motivation to keep right on playing this amazing game.”The Binding of Isaac Afterbirth+ includes a new expansion plus all of the previous DLC, and it further fleshes out Isaac’s replayable, addictive gameplay formula by offering more of what made the original shoot ‘em up action game so great. The almost non-stop variety, mysterious powerups, and procedurally generated maps are just as cryptic and challenging as they were before, but now you can play even longer without ever seeing the same thing happen twice.I can’t tell you how unexpected it was to find X-ray glasses that showed me secret rooms hidden in the dungeon, or how silly it felt to step into one and discover a golden turd that spits out coins when I shot it. I’ve never seen those glasses or that shiny turd again, but almost every power up has a potential story like this that’s both funny and messed up, and it's a satisfying part of what makes The Binding of Isaac special. The chances of discovering something you haven’t seen before is overwhelmingly in your favor.And the variety is off the charts across all categories. Afterbirth+ boasts a total of over 600 items, 180 enemy types, and more than 90 deadly bosses. It’s a lot see, but the included trackers will help you keep up with what you’ve found -- along with other neat stats, like enemy HP or how many times you’ve killed something. It’s also a painful way to track the long, hard road you’ll need to take to unlock all 20 of Afterbirth+’s ending sequences.As helpful as this info is, Afterbirth+ still relies on external wiki sources if you want to get more detailed information on what items actually do. I don’t think I would have ever figured out that passive collectibles like the Acid Baby drops pills after every two rooms, or that the Tonsil trinket has a small chance to summon a familiar that can block enemy shots without looking it up.It may be frustrating to not know what subtle effects certain items have the first time you find them, but Afterbirth uses that to fuel your curiosity. I can’t tell you how many times I held my breath as I pulled the trigger just see if a special item would help or hurt my run. It’s a satisfying dice roll and, after enough experimentation, you start to learn what special items are effective and what to avoid. The mystery surrounding items makes for an addictive game of chance that will constantly throw you curveballs, and never feels predictable.
Blaster Master Zero Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/15/blaster-master-zero-review|Blaster Master Zero is built upon the same offbeat premise of the 1988 original - a young boy, Jason, follows a frog through an interdimensional portal and winds up exploring a series of mutant-infested subworlds in an upgradable jumping tank. It’s a pretty silly set up, but developer Inti Creates doesn’t allow the paper-thin plot to stand in the way of a mostly fun Metroidvania-style exploration experience - even if the combat is surprisingly easy for a classic-style platformer.
Nintendo Switch - Final Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/08/nintendo-switch-review|[Editor's Note: The Switch has changed a lot since this review was written, so we've done a new Switch review for 2018.]The Nintendo Switch isn’t unlike a NASA spacecraft, in that nearly every part of it has been specially designed to pull double or even triple duty. The system’s modular design means that it has to function as a traditional home console, a portable system, and stand-alone touchscreen tablet with wireless controllers. Getting a piece of hardware to do that much while also making it easy to use and understand would be an engineering miracle, and although Nintendo has come close in some regards, it has fallen well short in others. Overall, the Switch is an attractive and powerful but oversized portable gaming system that struggles to be a convincing or reliable home console.
Fast RMX Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/07/fast-rmx-review|Fast RMX is a blazingly-fast, slickly-presented anti-gravity racer that borrows heavily from the classic Wipeout and F-Zero games. It never reaches the heights achieved by either of those seminal series, but its central phase-swapping mechanic helps give it a point of difference.Before we go any further, however, it’s important to point out that Fast RMX is essentially an expanded version (or, RMX) of the well-received Wii U racer Fast Racing Neo. Developer Shin’en Multimedia has included that game’s 16 base tracks and the eight added tracks from its DLC, and then introduced six more for a total of 30 courses. Elsewhere, it builds upon the same set of vehicles, the same three “leagues” – or speed classes – and the same set of modes. There’s one notable exception: time trial was not included at launch.It may be an anti-gravity racer, but Fast RMX hits the ground running. It explains little out of the gate, its AI is competitive, and its starting speed class is quite fast – particularly next to its even earlier forebear, Fast Racing League (a 2011 WiiWare release). That said, there are no weapons, so the focus is entirely on racing and making the most of the two boost systems.The series’ signature mechanic is the ability to phase shift your vehicle between blue and orange states to hit the colour-coded boost zones on the courses themselves. It’s a simple, clever idea that adds another wrinkle to racing and track knowledge, but stops well short of an Ikaruga-like implementation. Instead, you’ll hit boost strips, you’ll soar through alternating zones that require quick switching, and you’ll vault from coloured jump pads.Mastering each course is all about finding the best racing line to both hit these boost zones and to pick up the many energy orbs. The latter top off your energy meter, letting you manually boost to maintain your top speed between boost zones, or quickly get back up to speed if you crash or get hit by another racer.Fast RMX’s Championship mode isn’t ideally structured. Instead of steadily unlocking the complete set of 30 courses as you progress through the speed classes, you actually get to race on all of them from the first class – Subsonic. While freedom is usually a good thing, I found that I wanted more of an incentive to persist with the Championship beyond testing my skills and unlocking courses for Hero mode.Moving from one speed class to another isn’t quite the jump you might expect, either. As I mentioned, Subsonic is actually quite fast, so moving to Supersonic is really an incremental step. That’s fine, but it’s in contrast to a series like Wipeout, where the jump is so significant that you basically need to learn new racing lines for each course. It also means the course design can’t scale. Having some courses that only exist in the top speed class allows for a different style of design, as they don’t need to remain fun at slower speeds.The weather effects are generally excellent.To their credit, the 30 available courses are impressively varied in terms of settings. You’ll blast through deserts under the baking sun and whip through lush tropical jungles against the driving rain. You’ll visit futuristic metropolises and ancient civilisations. You’ll race on swooping structures suspended high in the sky and you’ll dodge asteroids in space. Each is distinct in terms of architecture and tone, and there are always incidental details to appreciate, whether that’s environmental effects like racing in and out of clouds or more overt inclusions like the course where a gigantic sandworm erupts from the side of the track and rumbles overhead. Sadly, the soundtrack – a vital component of any anti-grav racer – is largely indistinct.On a technical level Fast RMX runs at 60 frames per second across single and splitscreen (with the odd hiccup that I’ve noticed), and the native resolution tops out at 1080p, as opposed to Fast Racing Neo’s 720p. The lighting and effects on the returning courses have also been improved noticeably over the Wii U’s version, too.The actual course design is a mixed bag, however. Iceland, for instance, channels F-Zero X’s Big Blue, seeing you racing along the outside of a tubular track, able to move all the way around its surface. The coolness of the setting is soured somewhat by the stalking robots, pylons, and walls that litter the track and can be almost impossible to avoid at speed. These kinds of obstacles are present in many of the courses, and while some are fair - spinning turbines you can see from a distance, or pylons in fixed places, others are far more random, and thus, less fun. Fast RMX also has its fair share of jumps that’ll send you careening into scenery if taken at the wrong speed. The course design often feels clumsy, as opposed to skill testing.None of these points are deal breakers, they’re just a bit irritating given how competitive the AI is, and given you only have one shot at each course within each Championship cup. The lack of a time trial mode compounds this, as you can’t go in and practice a course that’s giving you problems. The developer has said the mode will come in an update, but as it stands, time trial functionality like ghost races is sorely missed.Hard-edged design elements are even more of a problem in Hero mode, in which you race individual courses and have only one life, so a single mistake and you’re starting the whole race again. That said, this mode offers a pretty compelling alternative to Championship. In Hero mode, your boost energy is also your shield energy, so every course becomes a test of using enough boost to stay in contention, without y'know, blowing yourself up. Oh, and you must come in first – there’s no prize for second place.Hero mode also has all 30 courses across all three speed classes, but you’re actually racing mirrored versions of the tracks. Given that this is supposed to test your expertise in each course, I’d have thought having the regular versions would make more sense, with mirrored unlocks at the end of both the Championship and Hero mode as a bonus.Fast RMX certainly isn't short on atmosphere.Fast RMX also has a suite of multiplayer options, but as of this review’s publish date, this is its weakest component. Online multiplayer currently has no lobby system. Instead, you choose your vehicle then are thrown in with a random group of people. When a race ends everyone votes for the course they’d like to do next, and that’s it. No championships, no way to choose speed class, and no friend functionality. The latter is due to be patched in soon.Splitscreen multiplayer, on the other hand, fares a lot better. It supports up to four players, but gives you plenty of options to work with. You can choose individual tracks or race through a cup, you can turn CPU drivers on and off, you can choose your speed class, and you can set lap count. Local online multiplayer is also available, but each player needs to own a copy of the game.
Snipperclips: Cut It Out Together! Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/07/snipperclips-cut-it-out-together-review|The key to Snipperclips: Cut It Out Together! lies in cutting your own characters to pieces to fit whatever colorful, lighthearted challenges it throws at you. That idea, applied to a series of peculiar but engaging objectives, consistently leads to clever and oftentimes hilarious use of this puzzler’s central mechanic. And those objectives are well worth tackling alongside a group of friends.Offering two sets of puzzles — one for up to two players and another set for up to four — Snipperclips simply throws you into each problem in a refreshing way. The only information it provides is a name and the basics of its snipping mechanic — characters can overlap and cut away those parts of each other. Being given so little direction is actually freeing because it prompts you and whoever you’re playing with to think creatively. I found myself immediately exploring every level, testing the bouncy physics that cause items in the environment to react to whatever shapes you’ve created and occasionally messing with other players by cutting them to pieces before tackling the puzzler’s wide away of eclectic challenges.The Princess Power-Up minigame is a particular highlight — essentially a game within Snipperclips, you have to move an in-world joystick to control a princess who has to collect a series of diamonds. But, you must first cut the right path for her to walk, avoiding enemies along the way. I would take an entire expansion of these levels alone.I played Snipperclips while waiting for a movie at a theater, during dinner at a diner, and at home on the couch. The bite-sized approach to puzzle design deliveredAdding up to three more people in co-op just means more creativity from the different perspectives, and thus more fun, especially with the puzzles designed for larger groups. Make a gear out of your friend, transport sludge via a ramp made from your character’s body, or pop balloons with another player’s head sharpened to a point. Every weird solution, or attempt at one, is a delight to work through in all of Snipperclips’ more than 60 puzzles.And the bright, angular art design is easily understandable and a joy to play through, so it rarely left me or other players at all confused about how to proceed throughout those challenges. The player characters’ ridiculous facial expressions only add to the silly nature of your tasks, as they squint under the weight of every bowling or baseball or gasp in horror as their friends snip away at them.
Just Dance 2017 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/03/just-dance-2017-review|I’m sure I’m not alone in often feeling uncomfortable and awkward whenever I have to dance in public, but that doesn’t mean I don’t enjoy it. Just Dance 2017 creates a social atmosphere where every dancer takes queues from a screen, and the embarrassment from utter lack of coordination is usually laughed at as a group as you watch video replays of your collective mistimed moves. It takes a social convention, combines it with an effective cardio workout, and adds in popular, recognisable music for a party game that’s easy to pick up and play.As a series, Just Dance is nearly nine years old and has a well-established, predictable formula: you dance to a library of new songs with an impressive variety of choreography and unlock some simplistic emblems and icons as you go. It’s flashy from the menu to the color-saturated videos that let you know what dance moves to imitate, though, in the case of the Nintendo Switch, you technically only need to match with one hand because that’s all that’s actually tracked. I played mostly in docked mode with both Joy-Con detached, but it also works fine in tabletop mode, albeit with a smaller screen that’s harder to share with someone else.The tracking doesn’t seem to mean a whole lot, though. Sometimes you’re told you mimicked a move “perfectly” and other times you can miss even though it feels like you’re doing the exact same thing. The difference isn’t clear, being that Just Dance 2017 doesn’t make effort to tell you what, specifically, you did incorrectly. I’d argue that correct Joy-Con holding form is the most important aspect. Given that it’s so imprecise, it’s a little weird that it assigns individual scores for you and the other three players you might be playing with or against.The most accurate way to play is on the Xbox One with Kinect, which tracks your entire body and allows for more players natively (you can have up to six players on Switch, too, but extras will have to join via mobile phone) by scanning the faces in the room, to the extent that even people who are sitting down are often scanned in and somehow manage to get points, too. The Kinect version does come with its own unique flaws, though: the menu is harder to control with motion, so it often ends with someone walking off to grab the Xbox controller at the end of each song. It’s a simple, tile-based menu that does manage to convey all of the information you might need about a song, but it’s still difficult to use with Kinect.All of that said, it really is a game about dancing to songs you know, with Just Dance 2017 including some major recent hits like Major Lazer’s “Lean On” and Justin Bieber’s “Sorry.” If you suck at dancing, Just Dance probably won’t make you improve, but it is a lot of fun and the variety of different moves certainly lead to a good cardio workout. The professional dancers in their unique, colorful outfits are a delight to watch, too, and group dances particularly showcase creative, unpredictable, and fun choreography, including occasional some actual interaction between players, like high fives.Unfortunately, a lot of songs are locked away behind Just Dance Unlimited, a paid subscription service that allows you to access songs from past games as well as some exclusive titles, for $39.99 a year. At this point, it feels like it might make more sense to have Just Dance exist as a digital-only game centered around Unlimited because the disc itself offers few updates from previous years.
The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/02/the-legend-of-zelda-breath-of-the-wild-review|The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild’s sheer freedom and sense of adventure is a remarkable achievement. Right from the start, the vast landscape of Hyrule is thrown completely open to you, and it constantly finds ways to pique your curiosity with mysterious landmarks, complex hidden puzzles, and enemy camps to raid for treasure and weapons. The fact that you can tackle any one of these things at your own pace and almost never get pulled to the main path is liberating, but the way all of Breath of the Wild’s systems fit elegantly into complex light survival game is even more impressive. I’ve been running around for over 50 hours and I still have plenty of mysteries left to track down and lots of wonderfully crafted puzzles to solve. I’m in awe of the scope and scale of this adventure, and I often find myself counting the hours until I can get back in.The untamed, post-apocalyptic, techno-fantasy land of Hyrule is the main character in Breath of the Wild. Not only is it vast, beautiful, and filled with a diverse set of locations from grassy fields to craggy alpine mountains, but it follows surprisingly realistic rules that let you pull off solutions so intuitive that you might be surprised they actually work. The trees bear fruit, grass fields can be set ablaze, and even enemies and animals behave in a believable manner, based on the skittish and aggressive reactions I’ve seen in the wild. But the realistic touches don’t end there. Each object you encounter, from sticks to apples to rocks and metallic blocks, is made of a material, and those materials usually respond to forces like fire and magnetism as you’d expect.It all sets up a surprisingly fun and responsive sandbox to interact with, and one I’ve rarely seen executed so well in an action-adventure game. If you think something should work, it usually does, and that led me to all kinds of fun and hilarious experimentation. You can stand under an apple tree with a torch and bake the fruit into a quick-healing snack before you even pick it, or drop a metal sword in front of a weaponless enemy and watch it get fried by a bolt of lighting. Meanwhile, Link needs warmer clothes to survive the cold and flame-resistant gear to near the volcanic Death Mountain. It’s consistently amazing to learn how all of these systems interact with each other while you play.That paraglider is easily one of the most useful tools in Breath of the Wild because it's so versatile. You can use it to effortlessly glide across lakes and gaps or ride updrafts into new areas, and I often used each long trip across the map as a way to scan the marvelously lit horizon in search of clues or meditate on what I need to do next.From overhead you get a glimpse of what’s even more evident from the ground: each individual area has its own little ecology, and systems built around extreme hot and cold temperatures and high altitudes mean you have to take the time to think and prepare in order to travel safely through them. It doesn’t matter, for example, if you can glide into the chilly mountains if you’ll freeze to death before you hit the ground. Going in with the right equipment makes all the difference.As you continue to improve Link’s stamina meter and skills you can reach even more of these varied locations. But no matter how much stronger you get, the world and its resident Mother Nature is always more powerful than you will ever be. Random events like rain and thunderstorms slow down your movement across slick surfaces, and dangerous lightning bolts can strike with little warning if you’re wearing any metal. Additionally, the day/night cycle is constantly running, and makes meaningful differences: nighttime brings monsters that spring up from the ground, it's easier to spot some useful bugs and plants, and other secrets that are best discovered for yourself. These are all constant reminders that you are always at the mercy of the world itself.The art of cooking is a relatively small feature, but like Breath of the Wild’s other components, every piece of this sandbox feels meticulously thought out, and almost every action has a natural consequence that makes sense.Breath of the Wild’s skillful combat is as approachable as it is deep, but you’ll need to study its nuances if you want to survive in the late game. Link can still use swords, spears, and axes (as well as other amusing blunt objects) he finds in the world, but for the first time in the Zelda series they’ll wear down and eventually break from use, which fits perfectly with the survival angle. Especially in the early game, when most item durability is low, you’re constantly swapping out weapons, never getting too attached to one sword or hammer and always ready to improvise by, say, picking up a bony limb of a downed Stal Bokoblin and using it to finish off the last of a group of enemies.Archery plays a much bigger role in combat this time around, and it’s for the better. Link can quickly pull out his bow and take aim at enemies at any time, using a wide range of arrow types (like ice and fire) to take advantage of their weaknesses. The metallic ping you hear whenever you land a headshot is an immediately satisfying treat, as are the slow-motion attacks initiated by jumping off of high places and drawing your bow as you fall toward a batch of enemies below. Since the duration of this arrow-time effect is dictated by your stamina, early on it feels like you rarely have a huge advantage. A few stamina upgrades will buy you more time, but the stronger enemies you’ll face on the outer fringes of Hyrule can usually withstand several headshots, which brings it back into balance.The way you can work the glider into combat is equally impressive and it makes for some engagingly versatile, skill-based action. Link can glide in, let go of the glider, and go into slow motion to fire off a few headshots, then grab hold of the glider again only to fall and downward-stab another unsuspecting enemy. The combat is open enough that it inspires more of the same playful experimentation as the world itself.On the other hand, dungeon bosses are challenging face-offs you can’t run away from. They’re as big on spectacle as ever, and my favorite ones involve ingenious combat puzzles where you need to use your Shekiah Slate, a powerful tool given to you early on that gives you special abilities like magnetising metal objects or creating bombs, to weaken the boss before you can take it down.The Sheikah Slate is a major piece of the main quest, which puts Link on a journey to reclaim his memories of Princess Zelda after an apocalyptic event left Hyrule in ruins. It took me roughly 40 hours to slay the final boss and piece together what happened 100 years ago. While most Zelda games are rooted in heavy tradition, this coming-of-age story is anything but and has plenty of charming characters and surprises to reveal. It’s amazing that it works so well while letting you tackle its dungeons in any order you want.Puzzle shrines yield their own useful rewards in the form of materials and handy weapon upgrades. These shrines involve short, inventive puzzle rooms which present you with a few clues and leave your to experiment in order to solve them. There’s a wide variety of them and a majority are excellent little puzzles to figure out, but a few of the combat-focused challenges are repeated and another handful use motion controls that just don’t feel quite as sharp enough due to wonky physics.There are even more cryptic challenges throughout Hyrule, some hidden behind riddles, and others are large mazes or other inventive ideas. Even after 50 hours, I still can’t believe I haven’t seen almost everything, but the surprises keep on coming. I estimate it would take over 100 hours to solve every side quest, puzzle, and collectible. It is a truly massive game to tackle.
Night in the Woods Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/02/25/night-in-the-woods-review|Night in the Woods is all about the little things. Late-night diner adventures with friends; spontaneous rooftop stargazing; chatting about ghosts with the crust punks who hang out on the outskirts of town. Moments like these come and go faster than you can swing a bat at a batch of discarded light bulbs out behind the local snack mart, but thanks to earnest, heartfelt writing and a good helping of dry humor, they also lingered in my mind long after they’d passed.While some pacing issues hamper the excitement of this side-scrolling, story-driven adventure’s latter half, I never stopped feeling invested in the personal stories of its adorable anthropomorphic animal cast, whose individual struggles and flaws make them surprisingly human and often painfully relatable.Little mini-games add fun variety to your interactions: shoplifting, beating up old cars, and playing in a band are just a few of the things Mae gets up to in her time back home. Sometimes I even found myself getting sucked into Demon Tower, a pixelated dungeon crawler on Mae’s laptop, before jumping into bed and triggering the next day in her adventure.These platforming-heavy dream levels were occasionally frustrating because it was easy to lose track of where I’d been and end up going in circles trying to hunt down my objectives, but lanterns that light up to mark your path do help. When you’re just on the town, though, platforming is fun and offers a certain amount of freedom that’s also playfully in line with Mae’s reputation as a delinquent.Most major interactions also prompt Mae to draw a sketch in her notebook, which serves as a nice collection of memories for your time in Possum Springs and adds an extra bit of charm or context to your everyday routine. Its soundtrack brings even more vibrancy and emotion into every scene: catchy tunes brimming with the spirit of childlike wonder, but underpinned with the inescapable nostalgia and sadness that makes the mood of Mae’s adventure so distinct.But for all its comedy and cartoonish light-heartedness, Night in the Woods is capable of startling sadness, which adds an unexpected depth that made my time with its characters so much more meaningful. Mae’s bad attitude and immaturity is sometimes a charming part of her personality and sometimes an annoying trait, but that’s always on purpose — the humor and sarcasm that made me laugh in one scene could devastate me in the next, as Mae’s behavior begins to unintentionally alienate the ones she loves. Night in the Woods’ realistic exploration of human insecurity, particularly the inevitable dread of adulthood, is a surprising element that its cute and cartoony (but still lovely) artwork doesn’t let on at first glance.But Possum Springs is haunted by more than just small-town superstitions. The memory of coal-mining disasters, labor strikes, and government-sanctioned massacres still linger in the older townsfolks’ collective consciousness. As I sat in the library with Mae’s friend Bea, scrolling through microfilm newspaper clippings of the town’s tragic history, the significance of even the most minor encounters began to weigh down — an ex-construction worker lamenting his unemployment; the startled disappointment of a favorite eatery closing for good; a crowd of older residents debating how to bring business back to their slowly stagnating town.Rarely (maybe never) have I seen the struggle and desperation of working-class middle America represented so thoughtfully in a game, and the way Night in the Woods weaves this unique disillusionment into an eerie mystery involving silly teens is both insightfully critical and defiantly empathetic. While the core events leading up to its unexpected climax are a little unevenly spread out in its relatively slow middle acts, the tone, character development, and refreshingly adult subject matter were enough to keep me engaged the whole way through.
Skylanders Imaginators Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/10/15/skylanders-imaginators-review|This year’s Skylanders sometimes feels like a casino: it’s exciting to look at, easy to consume, obnoxiously loud, and certainly wants to take your money with an excess of microtransactions that kids could easily accidentally click on. But with the addition of a new character-creation menu that’s buffed up with loot and gear of varying rarity, Skylanders Imaginators adds a level of customization, control, and creativity that keeps it feeling fresh.Imaginators is still leading the charge in the toys-to-life genre, with an expansive library of neatly designed toy figures jumping into animated life in your game world as soon as you place them on the included portal. That’s a Skylanders standard, but Imaginators introduces Creation Crystals, which are so appealing to my inner child. I can create my own creature, train it, and then carry it around with me in a little toy crystal – including to friends’ houses to introduce to their Imaginators so that we could fight evil together. I’ve certainly never felt anywhere near so possessive of a Skylander as I did for my Fire Sorcerer, Caerwyn, who I spent the better half of the 10-hour campaign customizing.Your Imaginator’s powers, weapons, bodies, clothing, catchphrases, and more can all be conveniently be edited and updated at almost any time through a simple menu that manages to neatly hide just how extensive it is. And you’ll have the option to upgrade plenty, since the wearable gear that’s scattered around Skylands is pleasantly common and comes in an appealing variety of designs. You can get an air horn for an ear, a snake for an arm, a chain for a tail and a s’more for a staff, if you want (and I did). Gear really helps to shape your Imaginator to be weird and wonderful, and a color-scheme system forces even the most eclectic bunch of gear to match perfectly, unless you want it to stay mismatched.The catch is that this gear is for sale through microtransactions, and Skylanders Imaginators isn’t shy about advertising that. If you press A or X quickly too many times while opening loot chests after a mission (there are a lot that you have to tediously open one at a time) you’ll find yourself in a store. That’s a little distasteful in a game aimed at kids of all ages. It’s doubly painful that gear can’t be worn by regular Skylanders (including the new toys, called Senseis) at all, meaning any existing collections of toys can’t hold a candle to the appeal of the Creation Crystals. Plus, there’s plenty of extra content that’s locked to Senseis of certain classes and elements, a level cap that only increases as you introduce more Senseis to your game, and encouragement to pay to 3D-print your Imaginators, too. That’s an exciting feature that lets you bring your Imaginator into the real world, but it’s another link in a chain of aggressive up-selling.Oh yeah, there’s an actual game here, too! Skylanders and Imaginators alike still dance across your screen in a flurry of basic hack ’n’ slash combat, with just enough variety for your button mashing to feel purposeful, and just enough upgrades to provide a sense of progression. Movement outside of combat is a little on the sluggish side, however, and I ended up favoring gear that would increase my Imaginator’s speed as a result.But the health of the significant variety of oddly charming enemy types, including some aggressive sheep dressed as wolves, and a combination of a shark and a tube that’s fittingly called a Tube-Shark, offer a consistent challenge in between the series’ tried-and-true puzzle-platforming. Each level also ends in a boss fight, but aside from the enemies being different battle classes, they follow an overly familiar and unfortunately predictable three-wave combat pattern that, ironically, lacks creativity.While the combat, platforming, and puzzles are all sound, this time the formula is some of the least interesting gameplay we’ve seen out of Skylanders in a while. Where last year’s game turned entire levels into interesting gravity-shifting puzzles, in Imaginators there are a handful of bizarre mini-games repeated over and over within different levels. They usually present you with challenges of grinding on railings, literally chasing snails, unlocking doors, and moving boxes, rather than concepts that are unique to, or complementary to, these admirably beautiful levels.And it is a wonderfully colorful, beautifully animated game, with a genuinely funny cast of characters who are each brought to life with goofy, but loveable voice acting. The score is seriously moving, too - water levels have a magical, aquatic echo, and the game-show level is as upbeat and cheeky as you’d expect from our oddly adorable returning villain, Kaos. The story that holds that all together is unfortunately bland, but creating the story of your own Imaginator makes up for that in spades.The PS4 version of Imaginators does have some extra value in Crash Bandicoot becoming a Skylander, and playing with Crash also unlocks an incredibly nostalgic, Crash-style level. The voice acting, sound design, and gameplay itself – with Crash running towards the camera and collecting apples while a giant boulder chases after him – is all a great homage.
I Am Setsuna Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/07/21/i-am-setsuna-review|Even if I am Setsuna hadn't been sold to the public as a salve for Chrono Trigger and Final Fantasy 6 fans pining for the golden age of the JRPG, its many similarities to those two classics would invite comparison. But instead of shamelessly aping those games, I Am Setsuna felt more like its own game the further I got into its deep magic and skills system, and the more I got to know its cast of intriguing characters. Some balance issues come dangerously close to trivializing its otherwise enjoyable combat, but it ultimately pulls through on the strength of its well-established tone and a well-told story.
Inside Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/06/28/inside-review|Update 2: Inside is now available for Nintendo Switch. We played it and compared it side-by-side with the Xbox One version and noticed no discernible differences in draw distance, image quality, framerate, or even the initial loading time. In short, it remains the same 10/10 game we originally reviewed it as, and we could not recommend it more.Update: Inside has been nominated for IGN's 2016 Game of the Year.
Valkyria Chronicles Remastered Review |https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/05/10/valkyria-chronicles-remastered-review|The original Valkyria Chronicles came out on the PlayStation 3 in 2008. Here’s what we said about it in our original review:Valkyria Chronicles' art direction is easily one of its most impressive aspects, and now that it runs at 1080p and 60 frames-per-second, the Canvas engine that powers the gorgeous “sketchbook” art style looks better than ever. It’s surprising how well the visuals have stood the test of time, and even more impressive is how instantly recognizable they are here. Saying that Valkyria Chronicles is inspired by World War II is a bit of an understatement and the cel-shaded battle tanks and armor are lovingly rendered, lending a genuine believability to the game’s alternate history motif.Unfortunately, as far as re-releases go, Valkyria Chronicles Remastered delivers the bare minimum. The original DLC missions and an Expert difficulty are also included, if you’re a glutton for punishment. Outside of that there are no additional bells and whistles, which is a bit disappointing, but it doesn’t tarnish the overall shine of the game itself.
1979 Revolution: Black Friday Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/04/21/1979-revolution-black-friday-review|Capturing the complexity of the Iranian revolution is hard to do in just two hours, but 1979 Revolution: Black Friday makes a noble and ultimately effective attempt. Thanks to an interesting cast of characters, impressive performances, and a respectful mix of drama and Telltale Games-style quick-time event action, 1979 Revolution kept me hooked all the way through and even managed to deliver an engaging history lesson along the way.The hope, passion, danger, secrecy, and tragedy of the real Iranian revolution makes it a fascinating time and place to set a story and 1979 Revolution manages to hit on all these points in its short, but sweet two hours. It’s set just days before the tragic turning point in the revolution known as the Black Friday massacre, which left several dozens of civilians dead in Tehran’s Jaleh Square after the army opened fire on a crowd.By placing such a bloody fate just over the horizon, 1979 Revolution maintained a constant sense of dread as I navigated Reza, a likable young photographer, through the streets of Tehran. Roped into a diverse circle of revolutionaries by his close friend, Babak, Reza finds himself in the midst of the revolution’s most impassioned demonstrations and the sharp men and women at the forefront. His initial caution and confusion is your own as you learn to diligently navigate the heated politics and dangers of the country’s civil unrest, an adventure that drew me in with the amount of careful detail put into the people and places.Despite that, I loved seeing the heart and soul of Iran, even during this tumultuous time, on full display. Half my family hails from Iran and experienced the revolution first hand, so my personal attachment to the events represented in 1979 Revolution is strong. I felt chills watching the opening credits, which juxtaposes live-action footage from the revolution against innocent home movies and in-game footage. In an opening chapter, I even recognized the bank where my grandfather used to work in Tehran – to see that kind of representation, no matter how mundane, in a medium where my culture and the Middle East at large are usually portrayed as desert war zones, was touching. But 1979 Revolution doesn’t just get credit for exploring uncommon subject matter. It’s the care and respect with which it treats its subjects that truly make it shine.Protesters deliver a speech during a crowded demonstration.A personal connection to or prior knowledge of the events explored here aren’t required to appreciate 1979 Revolution’s story or historical backdrop, thanks to the way we’re introduced to it. The photographer role is an obvious, but smart way to drop us into the middle of a complicated conflict without demanding we brush up on our history first, and that’s a convenience 1979 Revolution uses to great effect.1979 Revolution brings up real-world photos based on your in-game snapshots.I shot more photos of striking oil workers, a homeless mother, people waving signs in support of a pro-democratic Ayatollah – each with some interesting historical or cultural fact to go along with it. Key encounters with certain characters or points of interest, from people distributing political speeches on the streets to posters of Iranian pop stars, also add extra bits of information to a handy booklet in the pause menu. If you take a few moments to read it, 1979 can deliver loads of enriching material without bombarding you with it.This documentary-style game doesn’t just seek to educate, though. 1979 isn’t afraid to dive deep into the heart of the revolution’s most emotional and horrific aspects, making for a great story lead by even greater characters. But as you navigate the spirited protests, secret political meetups, and unpredictable military interventions of the revolution, 1979 maintains a respectful blend of drama and action. Even with gruesome first aid mini-games, quick-time events that depict Reza fleeing from tear gas in a crowded street, and harsh interrogation sequences set in Iran’s notorious Evin Prison, the violence of the revolution is never glorified or sensationalized.A demonstration turns into a riot after the army roughs up a group of student protesters.Dialogue options in 1979 Revolution.The linearity of its tale isn’t necessarily a bad thing. 1979 has a story it wants to tell, and while it doesn’t let you stray too far from the path, it does tell its story well, successfully building drama and tension in other ways. Smart, nuanced writing, along with some powerful performances bring even the most minor characters to life. 1979 can look visually rough at times, with awkwardly animated background NPCs and too many duplicate character models, threatening to pull me out of the moment as I explored this digital replication of Tehran’s streets.
The Banner Saga 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/04/19/the-banner-saga-2-review|For months I used a screenshot from the first The Banner Saga as my desktop wallpaper, and I still sometimes write to Austin Wintory's magnificent score. But for all that fondness for its art and style, I winced a little at the thought of returning to developer Stoic's bleak, beautiful Nordic fantasy world for The Banner Saga 2. Aside from its incredible Eyvind Earle-inspired, hand-drawn aesthetic, the world itself is about as uplifting as a bankruptcy notice in a funeral home. Happily, it only took me a few moments to realize how much I would have regretted missing this strong sequel.
The Flame in the Flood Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/03/03/the-flame-in-the-flood-review|The Flame in the Flood hits a little close to home. In the fall of '98 I watched as the San Antonio and Guadalupe rivers near my home swelled out of their banks to drown miles of the surrounding countryside, carting off whole houses and trees with the same ease that ants carry away crumbs of bread. The waters cut us off for days, and least 31 people died.Survival games don’t often lean heavily on hope, preferring instead to focus on the humdrum drive to simply last until the next day. But The Flame in the Flood succeeds in part because it’s a game about pushing us toward a promising something, placing us as it does on a river that’s jumped its banks and engulfed the world. In the little islands dotting the river and in the banks beyond, dark conifers and grasses thrive on land once suffocated under cement. Rabbits, wolves, and bears evade rent in crumbled apartment buildings, all while the occasional fiddle or harmonica strain suggests the American spirit need not die, even if our cities do. The Flame in the Flood rushes us through all this on the current of a destiny that’s never exactly manifest. I could think of far less appealing apocalypses.
Layers of Fear Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/02/14/layers-of-fear-review|The name Layers of Fear suggests some kind of depth, but a failure to branch out from the same couple of good ideas it has prevents this short horror game from achieving any level of fright beyond cheap jump scares and an atmosphere built almost entirely out of tired cliches.To its credit, it’s found an interesting subject in the world of classical painting, and employs inventive visual effects to subvert space and architecture in truly unsettling ways, but it devalues its best moments by abandoning subtlety in favor of excess, letting bland horror tropes fuel its story, and staggering its pacing with unfulfilling puzzle design.From the earliest moments, Layers of Fear’s brand of Victorian horror feels fully realized: you play as an artist, driven to madness by a creative block that’s made it awfully difficult to complete his masterpiece. It’s a setup that’s brimming with the potential to channel Gothic, Dorian Gray-style dread, and at its highest points, Layers of Fear does illustrate this descent into darkness and anxiety in really interesting ways.Walking through the same predictable hallways just doesn’t make for a scary experience, especially when paired with boring cliches like creepy dolls and angsty wall scribbles. It isn’t even a problem that Layers of Fear features traditional horror tropes to begin with – the bigger issue is that it doesn’t bother to play around with these elements or repackage them as something fresh. Creepy dolls and “messed up” kid’s drawings serve as cheap ornamentation for a setting that doesn’t really need it. Is crayon art of a burning forest scarier than going on a hallucinatory nightmare trip through a living house that’s constantly changing its layout to bring your past misdeeds to light? I’d say no, especially not when the last part lacks the depth to stand on its own. The "disturbing" crayon doodles are just pointless.Layers of Fear also tends to telegraph its jump scares, like a poorly designed walk-through haunted house. At no point did I feel the need to look over my shoulder or peer cautiously around a corner – the on-rails style made it clear that the central scare in each sequence was always going to be in front of me, and if it was going to be behind me, it would let me know first. Without uncertainty or tension informing my every move, the constant wandering through looping hallways turns Layers of Fear into a dull routine. And every time I started to enjoy the flow, it was broken by small puzzle challenges that just aren’t fun to solve.One particularly frustrating sequence asks you to collect tiny checkers pieces in a large, dark room, which felt like the three-dimensional equivalent of pixel hunting. Even though the pieces glow to make locating them easier, the search felt more like a chore I needed to trudge through before I could move on to the next area. A better-designed sequence involving a series of hidden telephones at least kept me moving and exploring in an engaging way, but moments like this are extremely rare in Layers of Fear’s short, two to three-hour run.
Darkest Dungeon Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/01/27/darkest-dungeon-review|Update: Darkest Dungeon has been nominated for IGN's 2016 Game of the Year.Like most fiendish things, Darkest Dungeon appears much simpler and more benign than it is. Its grim but expressive hand-drawn art style, combined with how you only ever see your party of four mismatched adventurers trudge from left to right as the backgrounds scroll by like a demented Hannah Barbera cartoon, might give you the idea there’s not much to it. But once you’ve explored a few of these randomized dungeons and almost certainly seen several of your fragile characters brutally killed or driven insane, it’s revealed as an intimidatingly deep, tense, and intentionally opaque turn-based tactical game that’s dripping with character.What strikes me most is how the rampant and merciless randomness always keeps me off balance, struggling to stay alive. It comes in both the usual accuracy percentages for various attacks and dodges, but also unexpected and unusual places - even the turn order is mixed up by behind-the-scenes dice rolls. So you’re never quite sure, for example, if your Vestal healer will be able to patch up your Crusader tank before the enemy can deal a killing blow, permanently removing that character and all his progress from your roster. By robbing you of the certainty and predictability you usually see in a turn-based tactics game of this nature, Darkest Dungeon creates tense and terrifying battles where you’re never sure what’ll happen next.Above: gameplay in the Weald dungeon.Above: Gameplay from the Warrens dungeon.Above: Gameplay in the Ruins dungeon.
Oxenfree Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/01/15/oxenfree-review|I couldn't rush through Oxenfree. Part of that is the way the supernatural coming-of-age story is paced, which is sometimes to its detriment, but it's mostly because of small moments that gave me pause. I’d often stop and listen to the end of one of the many conversations — which are wisely blended in with regular walking around and exploring — and look at the gorgeous environments, thinking about my own teenage friendships. It’s unfortunately too slow in multiple parts, but Oxenfree’s beautifully developed relationships make it more than worthwhile.While these awkward conversations don't necessarily sound like natural teenager speech, Oxenfree’s branching dialogue options make it work. Like the conversation with Jonas, there usually aren't obviously “good” or “bad” choices — some feel nicer, maybe, but most just reveal different parts of the characters’ full selves.You get to choose who accompanies you for most of the game by making specific choices. My favorite character to spend time with was Jonas, an interesting but clearly troubled person who provides insight into Alex’s own personal trauma, but even Ren grew on me the more I got to know him. I loved listening to them dance around awkward topics and reveal personal details to each other in a way that, despite the stilted dialogue, felt pretty true to life. But there were times when, no matter what choice I made, I was going to end up hurting someone. It’s an important reminder that you can’t “win” social situations, and that kept Oxenfree’s supernatural plot points grounded in reality.Oxenfree’s story progresses as you build and discover relationships with its interesting characters, but the clever twist is using a radio to tune into the supernatural side of things. Creepy audio crackles through the radio, and then everything changes. “Time loops” warp the environment, reset conversations, and reveal the darker parts of the characters and their world. I’d be walking through Oxenfree’s island and talking somewhat casually, only to be torn back to an earlier point in time and notice things are subtly and unsettlingly different this time. A campfire appeared where there wasn’t one before, and then a soccer ball that I had trouble kicking... And, without spoiling anything, there’s also a neat social integration that makes time loops extra intriguing.However, Oxenfree’s pacing is strangely inconsistent. Long walks from area to area make sense because they leave room for important conversations, but walking often dragged on too long. I sometimes felt like I didn’t have enough to do. That might be the point, and it’s one of Oxenfree’s strengths that it’s not overloaded with pointless things... but in a game that’s focused on characters and how they interact, that sluggishness made me a little more reluctant to repeat this story than I’d have liked.I did replay it, though, and I enjoyed experiencing it with a fresh perspective. Slow walking isn’t conducive to exploring, but it does encourage admiring the gorgeous landscapes. Alex talks a lot about her memories of the island, so walking through a beautiful forest or in an eerie, crystal-filled cave made me as fond of her childhood haunt as she was. The characters are also really small as a part of the art style, which made me feel like everything that was happening was much bigger than I was. The music adds to that feeling, often tinged with sadness, and together the art and soundtrack deepened my connection to a game all about human connections.The Nintendo Switch version of Oxenfree might be the very best way to play. It contains the really interesting New Game + mode that was added to all versions after launch, as well as now featuring localizations in French, German, Spanish, and Italian. It makes great use of the haptic feedback of the Joy-Con, and that helped immerse me even more into the wonderful story. There’s also both controller and touch-screen support, and Point-and-click adventure games feel great when you can actually...well...point and click on things.
Prison Architect Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2015/10/06/prison-architect-review|Nothing turns a soul dark like a great strategy game. When I started playing Prison Architect, I tried to make a well-maintained, comfortable place to pass a decade or two in quiet contemplation. I gave my prisoners televisions. I gave them sofas. They responded with fire and riots and scheming while the guards’ backs were turned. Well. Things aren’t so pleasant any more.All this makes for a surprisingly open sandbox, given the highly specific nature of the job, though it’s a sandbox where the map has to be fenced off quickly, before the first prisoner delivery arrives. The catch, paving the road to Hell with former good intentions, is that you’re running a private prison, which has to turn a profit in addition to processing criminals. That’s not too difficult early on, but the needs of a larger prison soon multiply. Buildings. Staff. Disaster recovery. It goes on. It’s not enough for instance to just put down CCTV monitors; they all have to be hooked up to a console with a guard assigned to watch, otherwise you’re still blind to what prisoners are up to.
One Piece: Pirate Warriors 3 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2015/09/11/one-piece-pirate-warriors-3-review|Like its predecessors, One Piece: Pirate Warriors 3 gives the Straw Hat Pirates the high-action Dynasty Warriors treatment, and it doesn’t change things too much this time around. In particular, the decent combat against hordes of enemies is largely the same as it is in One Piece: Pirate Warriors 2. However, unlike the last game, this one sticks to the canon One Piece story instead of telling a lackluster original one, and that sets it apart. It’s an extremely abridged story that has a bad habit of disrupting the battles just when they’re getting good, but Pirate Warriors 3 is fun overall and very well-suited to the waves-of-enemies “musou” style of battle.One Piece the anime has reached over 700 episodes as of this writing, and it's still going. That's a lot of story to fit in 12 or so hours of an action-focused campaign, but Pirate Warriors 3 manages to do it — somehow — and even include an original ending. Even as I reached story arcs I barely remember or ones I haven't seen, I still was able to follow along and, most importantly, enjoy it. I adore the world of One Piece, and none of that spirit is diminished in shortening the story. Saying goodbye to the Going Merry still gave me feels, and playing as Luffy really made me want to help his friends when they were in danger of dying in battle.That’s not to say that the battles themselves aren’t any fun, though. One Piece’s often over-the-top style suits the musou genre perfectly — each character’s set of attacks both makes sense for who or what the characters are and also for the Pirate Warriors’ kind of battle. All of them are capable of mowing down 50-plus enemies at once, and it’s consistently satisfying once the challenge picks up a little.
The Witcher 3 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2015/05/12/the-witcher-3-the-wild-hunt-review|Unlike its predecessor, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt doesn't exactly come screaming off the starting line. Compared to The Witcher 2, where you're immediately plunged headlong into a sexy story of intrigue and betrayal, this main quest can seem mundane, even perfunctory at times. But each time I stepped off the well-beaten path to blaze my own trail, it turned into a wild, open, exhilarating fantasy roleplaying experience, rife with opportunities to make use of its excellent combat. Even after over 100 hours with The Witcher 3, it still tempts me to press on – there’s so much more I want to learn, and hunt.
Axiom Verge Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2015/03/30/axiom-verge-review|Axiom Verge takes the adage “imitation is the sincerest form of flattery” and has it emblazoned across every moment of its 10-hour campaign. This 2D sidescroller pulls in most of the things that made Metroid such a classic experience: great weapons, interesting abilities, and a fantastic sense of progression. But where Nintendo’s classic presents a memorable setting with an evocative atmosphere, Axiom Verge’s world failed to leave a lasting impression on me.The sense of character progression throughout Axiom Verge delivers a lot of satisfaction. You’re constantly stumbling upon new powers and abilities that allow you to go back and open up dead ends you passed long ago. Gaining the ability to phase through thin walls five hours in, and then using it to grab a power-up that you saw near the beginning of the game gives a nice feeling of accomplishment for those who pay careful attention to their surroundings at all times.Likewise, seeing your hero grow from a relatively helpless guy stranded on a strange planet, to a demigod with an arsenal that’d make Master Chief jealous is a smoothly rewarding process. The dozen-or-so guns you get all feel very different, and have specific uses. The glitch gun is handy for transforming deadly enemies into peaceful platforms, while ice beams help to slow down particularly chaotic enemies. My favorite tool in Axiom Verge’s arsenal is a small spider drone which you can deploy and fully control to scout out sticky situations while your main character hangs back in safety.You’ll need to become familiar with all of your weapons and tools, because Axiom Verge features some awesome, challenging boss encounters. Learning their patterns and weaknesses, and ultimately slaying one of the massive beasts is a good old-fashioned rush. Controls are responsive, and the sensation of movement and combat feel great. Sure, there were a few that had me dying over and over again until I really memorized their patterns, but this was never too much of a burden thanks to Axiom Verge’s quick load times and ample checkpointsWhile the combat feels great, Axiom Verge’s sense of exploration is a letdown. The map unfolds as a hodgepodge of identical squares that never really give you any indication of what you’ve stumbled across. While I appreciate a game that doesn’t hold my hand, without a clear objective I found myself getting lost far too often, especially after taking a break and coming back to the game. And without a method of fast-travel, I spent far too much time wandering back and forth across vast stretches of the map in an attempt to figure out just what the hell I should be doing.One place Axiom Verge fails to learn from the classics is in its world design. Where Super Metroid is littered with memorable scenery and zones that feel completely different, yet spatially connected to one another, Axiom Verge’s locales never really stuck with me. Nothing about the world really felt lived in, or had any memorable personality. Metroid’s world made sense -- whether it was a crashed ship to explore near the planet’s surface, or a zone near the planet’s core that’s filled with molten lava. Axiom’s world just feels arbitrary.That goes for the story, too. Where Metroid succeeds by delivering its plot purely through environmental storytelling and atmosphere, Axiom Verge often grinds the action to a halt and delivers an exposition dump onto you. The story certainly isn’t bad, but I never felt attached to the characters or their problems, so pulling me out of the action ultimately turned into a chore. Finally, the twists in the final act never quite satisfied me, and instead continued to knot up the spaghetti-bowl of a story.Axiom Verge’s Metroid-roots feel right at home on the Nintendo Switch. Its satisfying character progression, great sense of movement, and tough bosses all play great on Nintendo’s new hardware. That said, my criticisms stand: I still feel like the world is forgettable, which really inhibits digging my teeth into the exploration aspect of the adventure. Likewise, the story never quite resonated with me for reasons described above. Still, Axiom Verge scratches that same itch as Metroid: Samus Returns for 3DS, and it’s great to have it on the go.
Valiant Hearts: The Great War Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2014/06/24/valiant-hearts-the-great-war-review|Video games are obsessed with warfare: ancient, covert, modern, futuristic. But Valiant Hearts is one of only a few to look at the first World War. It’s a studied depiction, but one in which you rarely shoot a gun. It’s a puzzle adventure that’s much more interested in how people are affected by such terrible events than recreating the violence. It occasionally gets too bogged down with historical trivia, but overall it’s a stylish and sincere adventure with a big heart.The most striking aspect of Valiant Hearts is the splendid art direction. Playing it really feels like watching a wonderful piece of animation, and I was surprised at just how versatile the style is. Of course, it shines at beginning when asked to depict the calm of rural France, but it’s equally effective when tackling much more difficult environments. The trenches and frontlines of the war, in particular, resemble scenes from Hell, with thick smoke weighing down from above and piles of corpses providing cover. Importantly, the cartoon style never conceals the horror of what is taking place.The bold art style succeeds because of some deft touches, so it’s a shame that the narrator has no qualms with laying it on a bit thick. Nowhere is this more pronounced than at the end, which is predictably moving, though spoiled somewhat by the narrator underscoring what I already felt unprompted.Unexpectedly, there’s also a sense of humor to be found. This works brilliantly on occasion, like when Ana flees Paris to the strains of the can-can. But elsewhere, it’s less well-judged. One of the points the story goes to great lengths to emphasize is the universal horror of war and how it affected people of all nationalities; one of the characters you play is a German soldier, even. So to have a bratwurst-chomping, pretzel-loving villain as the only identifiable antagonist seems at odds with the rest of the experience. He’s definitely more caricature than character.When it comes to gameplay, Valiant Hearts is an adventure full of puzzles which aren’t all that difficult to solve. It’s clear the experience is being pitched everyone, rather than those who need a challenge. This never bothered me in the slightest – the puzzles are satisfying enough to work through, and I actually think getting stumped would have undercut my interest in the plot.And there’s plenty of variety in what you’re given to do. Some puzzles involve simple object gathering, while others require strategic costume changes. You’ll lend your hand to plumbing, trench digging, and safe cracking. And it’s all in service of the plot, whether it’s reuniting loved ones or venturing behind enemy lines, the puzzles drive you forward. There are also more action-led sequences dotted throughout – again, they’re not particularly demanding, but do create some of standout moments. A particular highlight of mine was escaping from a POW camp by moonlight, evading torchlight and hiding behind scarecrows, bushes, and even a herd of wandering sheep.Throughout its six or so hour running time, Valiant Hearts does a magnificent job of incorporating so many aspects of the First World War. Each chapter introduces more iconic elements: zeppelins, flamethrowers, tanks, barbed wire, mustard gas, and even things like military insurrection. Everything finds a place. But what’s really great is they aren’t just chucked in – they’re always used in a way that makes sense: as a mechanic to learn, an obstacle to overcome, or even the basis for a new type of puzzle.Less successful is the way in which it flaunts historical credentials alongside the fiction it’s trying to unfold. You’re constantly bombarded with historical fact boxes. Reading them is entirely optional, but I found the prompt too insistent and a bit irritating. It totally clashes with the sense of style created by the art. Valiant Hearts does a great job of presenting such information through the world itself. It doesn’t need Encarta ‘95-style footnotes.Such crude trivia dumps are at odds with the game's presentation.It also creates some unnecessary tension between fact and fiction. Right at the beginning, we’re told these stories are freely adapted, and sometimes it’s more of a game than historical re-enactment, and I’m completely fine with that. For instance, there’s a section in which you attack a zeppelin with the help of a busted church organ in Reims’ cathedral. I’m pretty sure that didn’t happen… yet it works, providing a fun, memorable encounter that doesn’t undermine the subject matter. The slight awkwardness comes when the grim historical reality is presented immediately after one of these more fanciful interludes.
Stick it to The Man Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2013/11/13/stick-it-to-the-man-review|The fact that Stick it to The Man! is not a Tim Schafer game absolutely blows my mind (and believe me, I mean that in the best way). Its endearingly off-beat characters and quirky sense of humor could easily be mistaken for something straight out of Psychonauts or Grim Fandango. The basic setup even resembles Double Fine Productions’ latest effort, The Cave: though the 2D side-scrolling levels suggest it’s a platformer, the actual gameplay consists primarily of exploration, puzzle solving, and character interaction. You know, textbook adventure game stuff. It’s a formula we don’t see often enough, and one that Stick It executes with distinctive style, uncommonly excellent writing, and surprisingly self-assured game design.Shortly after the opening credits, leading man Ray Doewood -- a nervous but likable schlub -- is struck by a mysterious government canister as it crashes to earth. Following a pretty hilarious tutorial dream sequence, Ray wakes to discover a giant pink spaghetti arm sticking out of his skull and quickly learns a shadowy chain-smoker known appropriately as The Man wants him dead. Or alive, either way. Luckily, his brand new extremity not only allows Ray to nimbly grapple and swing to certain points in the environment, it also lets him read people’s minds. Because what else would a crazy head-arm do?Have you seen this man?Tim Burton would be proud.
Rune Factory 4 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2013/10/19/rune-factory-4-review|Rune Factory 4 is irresistibly charming. It has a plethora of things to do and a variety of ways to do them, and features some lovely graphics and catchy tunes. Those charms are slightly tarnished by the paper-thin plot, uneven pacing, and an under-utilized monarchy system, but even with a few smudges on its noble crown, Rune Factory 4 rules.Update by Casey DeFreitas, February 25, 2020Rune Factory 4 Special for the Nintendo Switch is an upgraded remaster of the original 3DS game with noticeably better graphics and some new content. You can watch the trailer for Rune Factory 4 Special below for a feel of the graphics and gameplay.
Ibb & Obb Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2013/08/07/ibb-and-obb-review|It’s strange that something so calming can sometimes grow frustrating, but such is the nature of Ibb & Obb. The art is simple, colorful and charming, the soundtrack filled with airy electronica, but its 2D puzzle-platforming world is made challenging by its dueling forces of gravitational rules and demandingly precise co-op puzzles. My partner and I had to communicate constantly to make it through the harder levels, and it made solving each brain-bending puzzle even more rewarding.Not so in the eight additional hidden levels, which are cruelly difficult. Their designs are so complex and busy that they actually dropped the framerate on my PS3, a cardinal sin in platformers. However, cooperative puzzle-solving is the star of Ibb & Obb, and while the platforming is solid, it’s less important to the level design at large than it is to properly executing an individual puzzle solution on a smaller scale – so the framerate issues weren’t a dealbreaker.
Limbo Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2011/08/02/limbo-review-2|Video games are an art form made up of visuals, sound, and a mysterious little something we call gameplay. Limbo is the perfect example of these three crafts working together in harmony to create something astounding. With no text, no dialogue, and no explanation, it manages to communicate circumstance and causality to the player more simply than most games. This black-and-white 2D puzzle platformer is one of the best games you'll play this year on any platform.You control a young boy who wakes up in a forest with no indication of who you are, how you got there, or where you're going. You set out to explore this bizarre environment but soon find it to be a dangerous place, at which point your motivation becomes clear: you need to get the hell out of there. No cut scenes or loading screens will interrupt the action, making it easy to be swept away by Limbo's disturbing world. From beginning to end, the game never stops surprising, delighting, and horrifying the player.There are some pacing issues, though. In the first half of the game you encounter many interesting creatures and what appear to be other children (who are none too happy to see you). Then the second half takes place in a deserted industrial area. The puzzles become more interesting and complicated, but the absence of other life forms weakens our emotional connection with the game. Limbo's final moment gave me chills -- one of my favorite game endings ever. But the lead up to it needed more of a climax. You work your way through the second half of the game conquering increasingly dastardly puzzles, and then the journey ends unexpectedly.So what do you actually do in Limbo? Well, you die a lot. But don't worry, the game avoids being frustrating. The developers describe Limbo as a trial-and-death game. As you make your way through the forest, you'll come across obstacles that will often kill you immediately in shockingly gruesome ways. How many times have you seen a little boy decapitated by a bear trap? But after your death you'll restart right before the trap and get to figure out how to get around it. The game is very clever and eventually becomes quite challenging. You'll be hooked the entire five to six hours it takes to reach the end. While this may sound short, it's better for a game to leave us wanting more than to overstay its welcome.There is a leaderboard that tracks your completion percentage, but the developer really missed an opportunity to build robust leaderboards that track all kinds of stats like number of deaths and completion time.The sound design on display here is nothing short of astonishing. Many puzzles require you to listen carefully for sound effects that will clue you in on how to get past them. While there isn't much of a soundtrack in the traditional sense, the ambient noises really instill a sense of dread in the player.
Resident Evil 5: Gold Edition Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2010/03/17/resident-evil-5-gold-edition-review|Change can be a painful process. Just ask one of the unfortunate citizens of Kijuju, the fictional region of Africa that serves as the setting of Resident Evil 5, the latest entry in Capcom's ongoing zombie videogame saga. A power-mad corporation's evolutionary manipulations have caused a biological disaster that turns people into mindless hosts for a military-grade parasitic infection. And you thought the Bird Flu was nasty.The citizens of Kijuju are going through some ugly changes, many of which involve tentacles, oozing eyeballs and heretofore unexplored bloodlust. And, as is the custom in a Resident Evil game, you drop into the situation woefully underprepared for what awaits. The resulting experience is an intense, action-packed adventure replete with satisfying combat, tight gameplay and gorgeous, well-crafted environments. Resident Evil 5 offers all those things and then some, but it doesn't do many of the things longtime fans of the series expect. It won't scare you. It won't fill you with creeping desperation. It won't have you collecting and counting bullets like they're precious stones. It won't, in essence, make you feel like you're playing a traditional Resident Evil game.Like the story it's trying to tell, Resident Evil 5 is all about evolution. Capcom has gone out on a limb with the latest numbered sequel in its long-running survival horror franchise, and although one of your goals as a player is to survive the horrors around you, this entry in the series is a radical departure from the genre Capcom helped create near Raccoon City more than a decade ago.Gold EditionIf you've never played Resident Evil 5 and want to own a new copy with all available content, get the Gold version. This uber-release contains everything the original did, plus these extras:- Lost in Nightmares Episode   Read the review- Desperate Escape Episode   Read the review- Versus Mode   Read the preview- Mercenaries Reunion Mode- Four new costumes- Extra (virtual) figurinesAll of the above can also be downloaded from Xbox Live or the PlayStation Network, either separately or (in some cases) bundles. So if you're just interested in the core game and, say, one of the add-on packs, you might be better off buying the original version of Resident Evil 5 and downloading the pack you prefer. It would be cheaper, and you'd have precise control over what you're buying.The PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of Resident Evil 5: Gold Edition offer the same content, but they handle them a bit differently. The Xbox 360 version comes with the original Resident Evil 5 game disc and a card with a code to download the full Bonus Content pack, which comes in at roughly 1GB of data. The PS3 version stores the bonus data on-disc, and it requires a roughly 12-minute installation to the hard drive. Because all the info is stored on the PS3 disc, it's not instantly playable. You'll need to unlock the bonus Gold content by playing through the game. On the 360 version, however, everything is open once you download it.Both the Desperate Escape and Lost in Nightmares add-on packs are worth playing, but neither are essential to the Resident Evil 5 experience. Mercenaries mode is a ton of fun, but it's automatically unlocked at the end of the standard version of RE5, and the Mercenaries Reunion is simply the standard Mercenaries mode with some extra characters and costumes. Versus Mode is a four-player, team-based deathmatch that's just sort of silly. Running around shooting other Jills and Chrises is nowhere near as entertaining as fighting waves of infected creatures. Some will enjoy the novelty of Versus, but the real multiplayer fun in RE5 lies in Mercenaries mode.Resident Evil 5 was one of my favorite games of 2009, and it's just as much fun a year later. The extra content included in Gold is just icing on the cake. If you've waited until now to buy RE5, you might as well go all-out, right?imageUrl=http%3A%2F%2Fxbox360media.ign.com%2Fxbox360%2Fimage%2Farticle%2F107%2F1078200%2F480_re5_vdr_1268867144.jpg&caption=Watch+the+Resident+Evil+5%3A+Gold+Edition+video+review.You'll start out the game as Chris Redfield, who fans will remember as one of the co-stars of the original Resident Evil. But Chris is no lone wolf. Joining him on his mission is Sheva Alomar, an African national and bioweapons expert. Both Chris and Sheva are members of the Bioterrorism Security Assessment Alliance, a global outfit tasked with preventing the proliferation of "biological organic weapons."And to date, the group has done a pretty poor job of it. From the incident at the Arklay Mansion (RE1) to the outbreak in Raccoon City (RE2) and the Las Plagas infestation in Spain (RE4), the B.S.A.A. and its predecessors such as the S.T.A.R.S. team have been one step behind the Umbrella Corporation and its mysterious backers. When we last left the story of Chris Redfield in Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles, he and fellow former S.T.A.R.S. member Jill Valentine were battling through Umbrella's Russian base. So why isn't Jill at Chris's side in RE5? It's a good question, and one you'll have to play the game to answer. The extra content included in the Gold Edition sheds even more light on this mystery.This time around, it's Sheva who has Chris's back, and she'll be with you every step of the way, whether you go it alone or recruit a friend to play along. On your first playthrough you're stuck with the beefy Chris, whose bulging biceps and gigantic torso make Street Fighter IV's Ken look like a stick figure. Once you complete the game, you unlock the ability to play single-player as the more compact Sheva, who can handle herself and just about everything else.There are several scenes in RE5 where the more acrobatic Sheva will need to part ways with Chris to reach hard-to-access areas. It's a cool nod to the co-op nature of the game, but I felt Capcom could have gone farther with the concept. There are no moments when you truly feel separated from your partner, which could have upped the fear factor significantly. Part of the horror of past RE games lay in the cramped isolation of knowing you were all alone in a dark corridor. But here, you're never truly on your own, as Sheva is always at your side.When Sheva is controlled by the game, she does a pretty fair job of staying out of your line of fire, watching your back for enemies and healing or reviving you when you take damage. But just like any partner, she does have her annoyances. In RE5, as in other games in the series, each character is limited to a set number of inventory slots, and making the best use of that space is one of the keys to doing well in the game. In single-player mode, you have access to both characters' inventories, and you can swap items back and forth between them as you see fit.But Sheva likely doesn't have quite the same fanatical approach to ammo and health conservation that you do. She's a bit trigger happy, even when her targets aren't perfectly presented, and she tends to heal herself and Chris at the slightest sign of a flesh wound. But beyond that, I found her to be at the same time both refreshingly unobtrusive and surprisingly intelligent, as A.I. partners go. Some players will hand her a few weapons and let her loose on Kijuju, while others will likely restrict her inventory and use her as more of a pack mule.If you're a hardcore fan of the previous Resident Evil games, you probably just shuddered at the thought of you're A.I. partner wantonly wasting ammo, which was notoriously scarce in earlier installments in the survival horror franchise. But to understand how the gameplay in RE5 is set up, you'll need to forget just about everything you know about the series.Sure, there are parasite infected zombie-like enemies who want to kill you in Resident Evil 5, a situation that will be instantly familiar to fans. And there are some other through-lines as well. You can't run and shoot at the same time. Your inventory is limited. You can heal yourself by collecting and applying colored herbs. Weapons are upgradable. But there are also some looming differences.For the first time in one of Resident Evil's main numbered releases, cooperative play has been made the cornerstone of the experience. Nearly every aspect of RE5 is more fun with a friend, either online or via split-screen, which is available in both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. Just fire up a second controller, hit the Start button and join in. The game doesn't do a very good job of telling you how do accomplish this, but it's there nonetheless.Split-screen play is handled a bit differently in RE5 than you might be used to. Rather than cut the screen evenly vertically or horizontally, Capcom has given each player an equal size horizontal offset rectangle, one on the upper left and one on the lower right of the screen. It's an odd effect at first, but the more I used it the more I liked it. Although there's less screen real estate in use, it's easier to stay focused on your own character because the two screens don't directly abut one another.
World of Goo Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2008/10/20/world-of-goo-review|Simple concept, executed to perfection. That's gaming 101, and it works.By Jose OteroWorld of Goo’s stylish-yet-simple graphics look great on the Nintendo Switch handheld screen or on the TV, and it can be played on the hybrid console in several ways. As a portable game, you can use responsive touch controls to tap and drag balls of goo into the right positions in order to solve puzzles. But if you prefer to play on the TV or tabletop mode, World of Goo makes excellent use of the gyroscope built into the right Joy-Con by using it as an on-screen pointer. It provides a solid option if you want to play on a larger screen, and a designated button makes it easy to recalibrate if controls start to feels out of whack.
Ninja Gaiden Atari Lynx Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/1999/07/07/ninja-gaiden|As the landscape scrolls by, you can walk and jump all over the terrain. Enemies will come from offscreen, and you must fight them to the death. Several attacks are possible, such as swinging from overhanging poles, backwards jumps over walls, and flipping the opposition. Some obstacles along the way can be broken, by throwing someone into it, and will often reveal benefits such as extra health, lives, or a sword. For extra pressure, you must finish each level before an on-screen clock runs down.The biggest gripe against Tecmo's earlier Lynx title, Rygar, was that it was a scaled-down version of the arcade original. Sadly, Ninja Gaiden offers no improvement at all, and some would call its curtailing even worse. Only about half of the different types of villians are present, though there is some variety to their attacks. The game makes up for this deficency by bringing out even more enemies than the arcade version did. The challenge thus comes in simply surviving a swarming attack, rather than reacting to a wide variety of opponents.Ninja Gaiden is challenging, though not exceedingly so. You start the game with four lives, and each life can take up to five blows before dying. When you finally die, you may continue the game up to two times with a score of zero. The biggest problem, though, is that the game is too short; only four levels from the arcade original are present, which will not be enough for many action fans.The highest point of Ninja Gaiden comes in the game graphics. Though they are only about average for a Lynx game (reminescent of Rampage to a degree), the visuals are almost a direct lift from the arcade version. The smooth animation and distinctive appearances are translated intact. Game sounds are limited to the thuds and crashes of combat, though that is a fault of the original game instead. A background soundtrack adds a little spice to the action.
Thumper Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/10/05/thumper-vr-review
Shovel Knight: Treasure Trove Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/07/shovel-knight-treasure-trove-review
Doom Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/05/16/doom-review-2
Broforce Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2015/10/20/broforce-review
Saints Row: The Third: The Full Package Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/05/09/saints-row-the-third-a-the-full-package-review-nintendo-switch
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/04/20/mario-kart-8-deluxe-review
Super Bomberman R Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/07/super-bomberman-r-review
Puyo Puyo Tetris Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/04/24/puyo-puyo-tetris-review
Mega Man 11 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/01/mega-man-11-review
Graceful Explosion Machine Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/04/11/graceful-explosion-machine-review
Severed Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/04/26/severed-review
1-2-Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/03/02/1-2-switch-review
Punch Club Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/01/15/punch-club-review
Rocket League Xbox One Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/02/23/rocket-league-xbox-one-review
Super Meat Boy Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2010/12/01/super-meat-boy-review
Owlboy Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/11/03/owlboy-review
Jotun Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2015/09/30/jotun-review
Final Fantasy XII Original Soundtrack (US)|https://www.ign.com/articles/2006/10/31/final-fantasy-xii-original-soundtrack-us
Super Mario Odyssey Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/10/26/super-mario-odyssey-review
Rocket League Review – Updated|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/12/06/rocket-league-review
Big Bash Boom Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/12/03/big-bash-boom-review
Hyrule Warriors Definitive Edition Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/05/16/hyrule-warriors-definitive-edition-review
Octopath Traveler Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/12/octopath-traveler-review
Dead Cells Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/11/dead-cells-review
Super Mario Party Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/03/super-mario-party-review
LEGO DC Super-Villains Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/17/lego-dc-super-villains-review
Diablo 3 for Nintendo Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/30/diablo-3-for-nintendo-switch-review-diablo-3-eternal-collection
Pokemon: Let's Go, Pikachu and Eevee Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/11/12/pokemon-lets-go-pikachu-and-eevee-review
Travis Strikes Again: No More Heroes Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/01/16/travis-strikes-again-no-more-heroes-review
FIFA 19 Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/25/fifa-19-switch-review
Ape Out Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/02/28/ape-out-review
Castlevania Anniversary Collection Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/05/24/castlevania-anniversary-collection-review
Super Mario Maker 2 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/06/26/super-mario-maker-2-review
RAD Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/08/17/rad-review
Blasphemous Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/09/09/blasphemous-review
Daemon X Machina Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/09/11/daemon-x-machina-review
The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/09/19/the-legend-of-zelda-links-awakening-review
Ring Fit Adventure for Nintendo Switch Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/10/17/ring-fit-adventure-for-nintendo-switch-review
Luigi's Mansion 3 Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/10/28/luigis-mansion-3-review
Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/pokemon-mystery-dungeon-rescue-team-dx-review
Animal Crossing: New Horizons Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/animal-crossing-new-horizons-review-for-switch
Doom Eternal Multiplayer Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/doom-eternal-multiplayer-review
Panzer Dragoon: Remake Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/panzer-dragoon-remake-review
SnowRunner Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/snowrunner-review
Windbound Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/windbound-review
Doom Eternal: The Ancient Gods Part 1 DLC Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/doom-eternal-the-ancient-gods-part-1-dlc-review
The Last Campfire Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/the-last-campfire-review
Doom Eternal Final Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/doom-eternal-final-review
Story of Seasons: Pioneers of Olive Town Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/story-of-seasons-pioneers-of-olive-town-review
Hotshot Racing Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/hotshot-racing-review
Divinity: Original Sin 2 Definitive Edition Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/01/divinity-original-sin-2-definitive-edition-review
Yoshi's Crafted World Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/03/27/yoshis-crafted-world-review
Sayonara Wild Hearts Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2019/09/17/sayonara-wild-hearts-review
SpongeBob SquarePants: Battle for Bikini Bottom - Rehydrated Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/spongebob-squarepants-battle-for-bikini-bottom-rehydrated-review
Pokken Tournament DX Review|https://www.ign.com/articles/2017/09/21/pokken-tournament-dx-review